Business   Recent Commercial Real Estate. Advertisement Advertisement By ROSALIE R. RADOMSKYJAN. 2, 2014 RECENT SALE $4.2 MILLION 1154 President Street (between Rogers and Nostrand Avenues) Crown Heights, Brooklyn A private investor has bought this 23,340-square-foot, four-story 1919 walk-up with 28 apartments — one studio, eight one-bedrooms, 15 two-bedrooms and four three-bedrooms. Buyer: 1154 Realty L.L.C. Seller: 1154 President St. Corporation Brokers: David Scheer and Aaron Jungreis, Rosewood Realty Group RECENT LEASE $50/SQUARE FOOT $433,000 approximate annual rent 587 Fifth Avenue (between 47th and 48th Streets) Manhattan A beauty products company has signed a five-year lease, with six months rent-free, for the entire third and fourth floors totaling 8,660 square feet, and equally divided. A private staircase connects the two column-free floors. The company will move there in March. Advertisement Tenant: Art de la Beauté Tenant’s broker: Lily Lin, AC Lawrence Landlord: Baruch L.L.C. Landlord’s brokers: Catherine O’Toole and Gregory Gang, Tarter Stats O’Toole FOR SALE $7.2 MILLION 132 East 29th Street (between Third and Lexington Avenues) Manhattan This vacant, gutted 5,664-square-foot four-story apartment building, with an English basement, in Kips Bay, offers 6,200 square feet in unused air rights. It can be turned into a single- or multiple-tenant property. Owner: TaCenc, Inc. Broker: Marion T. Jones, Eastern Consolidated email: realprop@nytimes.com A version of this list appears in print on January 1, 2014, on page B4 of the New York edition with the headline: Transactions. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Food   Toro. A view of the spacious interior at Toro, a new tapas restaurant in far western Chelsea. CreditRebecca Greenfield for The New York Times 1 of 8 A second run for a Guyanese corner restaurant in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn.
Foreign   North Korean Leader Says He Wants Better Ties With South. Advertisement Advertisement By CHOE SANG-HUNDEC. 31, 2013 SEOUL, South Korea — The North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, on Wednesday called for improving relations with South Korea and boasted of his regime’s tightened grip on power in his first public speech since the purge and execution of his uncle, Jang Song-thaek, last month. “North and South Korea should create a mood to improve relations,” Mr. Kim said in a nationally televised New Year’s Day speech. “It’s time to end useless slandering, and the North and the South should no longer do things that harm reconciliation and harmony.” Mr. Kim began delivering a New Year’s Day speech after coming to power two years ago, reviving the practice of his grandfather Kim Il-sung. During the rule of his reclusive father, Kim Jong-il, the country’s main state-run newspapers issued a joint editorial to mark the day. Analysts waited for this year’s speech with unusual interest because it would be the first since the purge of Mr. Jang, long considered Mr. Kim’s mentor and the regime’s No. 2 figure. Mr. Jang was executed on Dec. 12 on charges of building a faction within the ruling Workers’ Party in a plot to overthrow Mr. Kim’s government. “We took decisive actions to remove factional filth,” Mr. Kim said Wednesday in an apparent reference to the purge of Mr. Jang and his associates. “Our party has tightened its revolutionary ranks by making a timely decision to ferret out and purge the anti-party, anti-revolutionary factional clique.” Advertisement The purge was the biggest political upheaval in North Korea in recent years. Some analysts have said it indicated the further consolidation of Mr. Kim’s rule. But others speculated that he had failed to establish the kind of absolute authority that his father and grandfather wielded and that the purge signaled a power struggle in Pyongyang, the North Korean capital. South Korean policy-makers have warned that North Korea may attempt military provocations against the South to build internal unity after the domestic political trouble. In his speech, Mr. Kim repeated his government’s traditional condemnation of the United States and South Korea for conducting war games on the divided Korean Peninsula. The exercises “created a situation where a trifle military skirmish can spread into a full-blown war,” he said. “If there is another war on this land, it will bring about a nuclear catastrophe, and the United States won’t escape it, either.” Mr. Kim had also called for an end to “confrontation” with South Korea during his last New Year speech, after his country launched a rocket in December 2012. Washington condemned it as a test of long-range missile technology. Mr. Kim’s government further raised tensions by conducting its third underground nuclear test in February. In most of the first half of 2013, the North issued a torrent of threats of missile and nuclear attacks at South Korea, the United States and its bases around the Pacific. But it has since expressed a willingness to re-engage in dialogue. Under Mr. Kim, North Korea adopted the simultaneous development of the economy and the nuclear weapons program as a key party line. Yet years of tightening sanctions have made reviving the moribund economy even harder. South Korean intelligence officials said Mr. Jang’s purge was partly the result of a factional struggle over the spoils of the country’s few sources of foreign currency, like exports of coal. On Wednesday, Mr. Kim echoed the themes of previous New Year messages, emphasizing that improving the living standards of North Koreans and rejuvenating agriculture were main priorities. But he also reiterated a call for strengthening the military through the development of advanced weapons like drones. North Korea has often called for improved ties with the South in its New Year messages. It hopes for the return of billions of dollars of South Korean investment, aid and trade, which had flowed during an era of reconciliation between 1998 and 2008. South Korea’s president, Park Geun-hye, a conservative, says her nation will not provide aid until the North wins the South’s “trust” by moving toward denuclearization. A version of this caption appears in print on January 1, 2014, on page A6 of the New York edition with the headline: North Korean Leader Boasts of Strength After Purge. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Science   Navigating Our World Like Birds and Bees Sign Up for the Running Email. Advertisement Gretchen Reynolds on the science of fitness. African tribesmen walk through their landscape in a pattern that eerily echoes the movements of scavenging birds, flocking insects, gliding sharks and visitors to Disneyland, a new study finds, suggesting that aspects of how we choose to move around in our world are deeply hard-wired. For the new study, which appeared online recently in Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, researchers at the University of Arizona at Tucson, Yale University, the New York Consortium in Evolutionary Primatology and other institutions traveled to northern Tanzania to study the Hadza, who are among the last human hunter-gatherers on earth. The Hadza generally spend their days following game and foraging for side dishes and condiments such as desert tubers and honey, frequently walking and jogging for miles in the process. The ways in which creatures, including people, navigate their world is a topic of considerable scientific interest, but one that, until the advent of global positioning systems and similar tracking technology, was difficult to quantify. In the past decade, however, scientists have begun strapping GPS units to many varieties of animals and insects, from bumblebees to birds, and measuring how they move. What they have found is that when moving with a purpose such as foraging for food, many creatures follow a particular and shared pattern. They walk (or wing or lope) for a short time in one direction, scouring the ground for edibles, then turn and start moving in another direction for a short while, before turning and strolling or flying in another direction yet again. This is a useful strategy for finding tubers and such, but if maintained indefinitely brings creatures back to the same starting point over and over; they essentially move in circles. So most foragers and predators occasionally throw in a longer-distance walk (or flight), which researchers refer to as a “long step,” bringing them into new territory, where they then return to short walks and frequent turns as they explore the new place. This particular motion pattern was first scientifically identified in 1999 among scavenging albatrosses and termed a Levy flight or walk (named, for obscure reasons, after Paul Levy, a French mathematician). Since then, researchers have discerned the same pattern in bumblebees, sharks, fly fishermen trawling a river and people at amusement parks, who sample one portion of the facility in depth before ambling off to remoter rides. But while the pattern was instinctual in animals and insects, it was not clear whether Levy-style movement was natural to humans or occurred in modern times almost by happenstance, because of how we built our cities and amusement parks. So the scientists turned to the Hadza, who still live much as humans did millennia ago. They outfitted 44 of the tribespeople with GPS watches and asked them to hunt and gather for several days while wearing the units. The resulting data showed that the tribespeople frequently employed the Levy walk, moving briefly in one direction, then shifting and covering nearby ground, until that area was exhausted of potential food, at which point they’d set off on a longer-distance hike to new ground and there begin the short explorations again. This finding has surprising relevance, even for those of us whose food is arrayed in grocery aisles, said David Raichlen, an associate professor of anthropology at the University of Arizona who led the study. The GPS readings reinforce the likelihood that Levy-style walking patterns are hard-wired into the human brain and predict how we behave. Even before this study was published, he said, planners in some cities had used the theory that people Levy-walk — spending much of their time exploring one area, with occasional “long steps” or forays into another part of a city — to determine where to place cellphone towers. At a more individual level, he said, the discovery may help to explain why, after spending hours in a small, familiar office, many of us feel an itch to wander the halls in search of new geography. But the most resonant implication of the study, Dr. Raichlen said, is that Levy walking patterns bind modern, urban humans to the natural world. “This pattern” of movement “emerges so often in so many different species and human societies,” he said. “It links us” to the flight of the albatross and to an ancient part of ourselves, even when we’re strolling toward Disney’s Tomorrowland. Your health questions answered by Times journalists and experts. Your Questions | All » Get Well's Running email for practical tips, expert advice, exclusive content and a bit of motivation delivered to your inbox every week to help you on your running journey. Coming soon. How much do you know about the amazing things that go on in your gut? Take our quiz to find out about the creepy, crawly critters living in your home. What surface is the most friendly to the flu virus? Where’s the best place to stand when you’re talking to a sick person? How does sleep affect health, relationships and well-being? The “Reading the Mind in the Eyes Test” measures ability to understand others’ emotional states. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   Snowboarders Push Into Alaska, by Foot. After spending 15 years exploring the peaks of Alaska by helicopter and snowboarding down them, Jeremy Jones started to discover remote mountains under his own power.          
U.S.   New Detroit Mayor Sworn In. Mike Duggan, a former hospital executive and prosecutor, begins his effort to renew a city long in decline.          
Business   Talk Radio on WABC Shifts Focus to the Local. Advertisement Advertisement By BEN SISARIOJAN. 2, 2014 In the war over talk radio in New York, WABC is going local. WABC-AM (770), which is owned by Cumulus Media, will introduce a new lineup on Thursday that emphasizes live and local programming, as its two most popular hosts, Rush Limbaugh and Sean Hannity, move to a rival station, WOR-AM (710). Weekday programming at WABC will include the return of Curtis Sliwa’s and Ron Kuby’s show, “Curtis and Kuby,” from noon to 3 p.m., after an absence of more than six years, and, starting Monday, a one-hour program at 5 p.m. with Pat Kiernan, the NY1 television anchor. Geraldo Rivera, who joined WABC in early 2012, will turn his focus to New York news in a two-hour live show at 10 a.m., as Cumulus announced in November. Michael Savage’s syndicated program, which has been heard in the evenings, will now run from 3 to 5 p.m. “Imus in the Morning,” with Don Imus, will continue from 6 to 10 a.m. “We’re delivering on our pledge to invest in localized content that will entertain, inform and engage listeners while also providing advertisers unique opportunities to reach their customers on a sustained basis,” John Dickey, Cumulus’s co-chief operating officer, said in a statement. The changes come as Cumulus tries to build its programming chest to compete against Clear Channel, whose 850 stations include WOR. Once a small player in the radio industry, Cumulus expanded greatly in 2011 when it bought Citadel Broadcasting for $2.5 billion, and it now operates about 460 stations. Advertisement Mr. Limbaugh and Mr. Hannity, whose shows are syndicated to hundreds of stations by Clear Channel’s Premiere Networks division, are by far the country’s most popular talk hosts, and their combined presence helped make WABC the dominant talk outlet in New York. Talkers, a trade magazine, estimates that Mr. Limbaugh reaches more than 14 million listeners each week and Mr. Hannity 13.25 million. Last year, however, Cumulus executives said millions of dollars were lost after advertisers withdrew from the shows, largely in response to Mr. Limbaugh’s ridicule of Sandra Fluke, an advocate of insurance coverage for birth control. Mr. Limbaugh’s and Mr. Hannity’s shows left WABC at the end of 2013 as a result of complex negotiations between Cumulus and Clear Channel. Mr. Hannity’s show was dropped from dozens of Cumulus stations, while the syndication contract for Mr. Limbaugh was renewed at most stations, but discontinued at WABC. In New York, their shows are now heard on WOR. “Curtis and Kuby,” which ran on WABC from 2000 to late 2007, will now compete against Mr. Limbaugh, and Mr. Savage’s show will be up against Mr. Hannity. While none of the new figures on WABC have followings on the scale of WOR’s syndicated hosts, Cumulus is betting on the appeal of locally focused content to draw New York listeners. Mr. Kiernan, who is on NY1 each weekday morning, said his show, which will include a co-host who has not been named, would be a recap of the major news and pop culture events of the day. He also emphasized the importance of local programming on the radio, as stations compete not only against one another but also against an ocean of media online. “In an era when listeners can go off in so many different directions,” Mr. Kiernan said, “local is something you can’t take away from people.” A version of this article appears in print on January 3, 2014, on page B3 of the New York edition with the headline: Talk Radio on WABC Shifts to Local. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Foreign   Delhi’s New Chief Minister Strikes a Chord With the People. Advertisement Advertisement By MANU JOSEPHJAN. 2, 2014 NEW DELHI — In Delhi’s winter, the practicality of warm clothes ensures that even the poor do not seem as austere as they do in other seasons. But the capital’s new chief minister, Arvind Kejriwal, has somehow managed to maintain his perennial simplicity even at the risk of looking somewhat ridiculous. Part of his attire this winter is a scarf below his customary white oval cap. A comment on my Facebook page described him as looking like an Emirates flight attendant. But the nation is fascinated by him. Never before in modern India have the elite and the poor agreed on a political matter, but now there is a consensus that Mr. Kejriwal is a hero of these times. Long an agitator who chiefly targeted political corruption, he contested the Delhi state elections, and on Saturday was sworn in as its seventh chief minister. He rode the subway to the swearing-in ceremony. He has declined state security cover and the sprawling official residence. His Aam Admi Party, or A.A.P., which had initially planned to contest about 100 of the 545 seats in the impending general elections to the lower house of the Indian Parliament, is now considering contesting about 300 seats. The previous general elections, in 2009, were contested by more than 350 political parties representing scores of regional, communal and social interests. The strategy of A.A.P. is to be the mother ship of numerous citizens’ pressure groups and mass movements across the country. It plans to broaden its mission beyond fighting political corruption and endear itself to those who want to cast a vote against a variety of government policies. Mr. Kejriwal’s triumph is a point in time in the evolution of both elite and mass protests in India, an evolution that has been accelerated by economics, technology and the intoxicating comforts of feudalism, which have long ensured that the rich, in many ways, have a better life in India than in developed nations. These factors have resulted in the urban middle class becoming increasingly interested in the nation’s political destiny. As recently as 2007, there was something comical about how the urban Indian middle class protested. They usually carried sunblock and stood holding placards in English. It was as if they were not protesting so much as talking to each other. Mass protests, at the time, were festive outings with jovial protesters often waving to television cameras. There were also, of course, very serious protests by the poor, but their marches seldom interested the mainstream news media. Advertisement But something else was going on. The middle-class enchantment with escaping to the affluent West was coming to an end. Even as India’s elite was prospering, the West was going through hard times. Then, in 2008, 10 terrorists from Pakistan attacked South Mumbai, a refuge of the rich. Mumbai’s elite erupted in anger, blaming the politicians they criticized as not being competent enough to protect them. When a politician came to pay his respects to the dead, he was driven away by a group of college students. This was unprecedented in Mumbai. In the general elections that followed, Meera Sanyal, a banker whose close friend had died in the attack, ran as a candidate from the Mumbai South constituency. Ms. Sanyal received extraordinary media coverage, and was impressive when she spoke of her plans, but she fared poorly in the election. It appeared that the educated urban middle class would never be able to influence Indian politics, even with the news media on its side. The middle-class revolt revived in 2011 as the global economy sank further. After a series of high-profile political scandals and a mass movement against the political class, Mr. Kejriwal emerged as a hero of the poor and the miserable. He was a beneficiary of middle-class anger against politicians, and the news media made him a national figure, but his success lay in realizing that the voters, who are mostly poor, mattered more. Manu Joseph is editor of the Indian newsweekly Open and author of the novel “The Illicit Happiness of Other People.” A version of this article appears in print on January 2, 2014, in The International New York Times. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Home   In Tiny Houses, Hope Lives. Advertisement Advertisement By ARLENE HIRSTDEC. 31, 2013 Kenneth Cobonpue, a Filipino furniture designer with offices in New York, Germany and his native Cebu island, has produced miniature vernacular metal houses that hold tea lights. Proceeds from their sale will help Habitat for Humanity Philippines build shelters for victims of the typhoon that devastated the Visayas region in November. Mr. Cobonpue said that his first sketches had solid walls, but rather than render just the physical properties of a structure he decided to characterize what makes a house a home. “I exposed the candle to symbolize the human spirit burning through the night,” he said, adding that the house “comes in a set of three to emphasize my belief in the strength of family and community.” The First Light houses are 8, 10 and 12 inches high, and the set is $100: 888-889-9005 or usa@kennethcobonpue.com. A version of this article appears in print on January 2, 2014, on page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: In Tiny Houses, Hope Lives. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Movies   This Week’s Movies. The ultimate film lover’s guide: The Times critics A.O. Scott, Manohla Dargis and Stephen Holden offer their picks for the week’s best movies, from blockbusters to hidden gems.          Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics Obama, Dancing with the Star (Wars) Cuban Ballet School in Motion Best of Obama's Correspondents' Dinner Speech This Week’s Movies: May 6, 2016 Welfare and the Politics of Poverty Fort McMurray Wildfire Under Investigation Canada Wildfire Prompts Mass Evacuations Why It’s Hard to Keep the Pounds Off Cruz Responds to Trump’s Paternal Dig
Science   Lentil and Carrot Salad With Middle Eastern Spices. Advertisement Advertisement Recipes for Health By MARTHA ROSE SHULMAN DEC. 30, 2013 I combined two of my favorite Mediterranean salads to stretch the cup of lentils I had in my pantry. Take care not to overcook the lentils; they should be slightly al dente. They go quickly from al dente to mushy, so make sure to check after 25 minutes. 1 cup brown or green lentils, washed and picked over 1 bay leaf Salt to taste 5 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil 2 to 3 large garlic cloves (to taste), minced 1 teaspoon cumin seeds, lightly toasted and ground 3/4 teaspoon coriander seeds, ground 1/4 teaspoon cardamom seeds, ground 3/4 pound carrots, peeled and thinly sliced 1 tablespoon freshly squeezed lemon juice Freshly ground pepper to taste 2 tablespoons chopped fresh cilantro 1. Place the lentils in a medium saucepan, cover by 1 inch with water, add the bay leaf and bring to a boil. Add salt to taste, reduce the heat and cook just until the lentils are al dente, about 25 minutes. Advertisement 2. Meanwhile, combine 3 tablespoons of the olive oil and the garlic in a small frying pan or saucepan over medium heat. When the garlic begins to sizzle, add the spices. Stir together for about 30 seconds, then remove from the heat and transfer to a large bowl. 3. While the lentils are simmering, steam the carrots for 8 to 10 minutes, until tender. Remove from the heat and transfer to the bowl with the garlic and spices. Add the lemon juice and salt to taste and toss together. 4. When the lentils are cooked al dente, set a strainer over a bowl, drain the lentils and toss at once with the carrots. If desired, add some of the broth to moisten. Add cilantro and another tablespoon of olive oil and toss together. Add freshly ground pepper, taste and adjust salt. Transfer to a serving platter, drizzle the remaining olive oil over the top, and serve warm or at room temperature. Yield: Serves 6 Advance preparation: This will keep for 4 days in the refrigerator. You might want to warm it before serving it, and drizzle on a little more olive oil. Variation: Spoon some Greek style yogurt, seasoned if you wish with puréed garlic, over the top of the salad. Nutritional information per serving: 224 calories; 12 grams fat; 2 grams saturated fat; 1 gram polyunsaturated fat; 8 grams monounsaturated fat; 0 milligrams cholesterol; 28 grams carbohydrates; 6 grams dietary fiber; 40 milligrams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 10 grams protein Martha Rose Shulman is the author of “The Very Best of Recipes for Health.” See More » Go to Home Page »
Sports   Raptors Knock Off Pacers. Advertisement Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSJAN. 2, 2014 DeMar DeRozan scored 26 points, Kyle Lowry had 13 points and a season-high 14 assists, and the host Toronto Raptors (15-15) extended their season-best winning streak to four games, with a 95-82 win over the 25-6 Indiana Pacers. ■ Los Angeles Lakers guard Jordan Farmar will be out for at least four weeks with another tear in his left hamstring. Farmar missed three weeks after tearing his hamstring Dec. 1. He was hurt again against Milwaukee on Tuesday. ■ The Cavaliers guard Kyrie Irving sustained a bruised knee Tuesday against Indiana and is not expected to miss significant time. A version of this brief appears in print on January 2, 2014, on page B12 of the New York edition with the headline: Raptors Knock Off Pacers. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Technology   The Waves From Up On High. Shots taken using the Phantom 2 Vision Photo Drone from DJI.          
Travel   A Winter Weekend in the North Fork. Advertisement Advertisement Seth Kugel FRUGAL TRAVELER JAN. 2, 2014 It’s free to watch the sun set over the wetlands that fringe the causeway connecting East Marion and Orient, near the eastern tip of Long Island’s North Fork. If the weather has been dry enough in this wine country just across the bay from the Hamptons, there’s a good perch on the marshy land near Latham Farms, by a little cabin on stilts known locally as the crab shack. The wine is also free, if your friend Jeanny Pak happens to have brought along a bottle of malbec and some plastic cups without telling you. There’s only one catch: sunsets tend to take place right around nightfall, which means you’ll also need a place to sleep. The price for that can vary widely over the course of a year in a spot this seasonal. The Greenporter Hotel in cute little Greenport Village, for example, charges $119 plus tax ($133) for its cheapest room on winter weekends; in July 2014, it will be $309 plus tax ($345). Affordable lodging and a lack of crowds were my primary motivations for heading to the East End on a winter weekend. And something about the Yelp reviews made me suspect I was going to like the Greenporter: “Dumpy motel lying and masquerading as a boutique hotel.” “About as much charm as a white padded room.” “I mean, come on guys, not for nearly $300 a night.” There, in that last one, did you catch it? Fussy online hotel reviews are easy enough for unfussy travelers like me to ignore; when the reviewers paid more than twice what you plan to, they mean practically nothing at all. In fact Jeanny, whom I invited as stand-in girlfriend in part because she has far higher standards than I, had no complaints — the overhauled former motel had a decent bed, working Internet and a bathroom with a timed heater (great for winter mornings). Just a clean, private room with hot water is generally enough for me; a flat-screen TV and a front desk that printed out hiking paths (and later, promptly mailed back an item left behind) were bonuses. There’s even a smidgen of style — a whitewash treatment alone is enough to transform the vibe from old to retro — and a decent free breakfast. Sure, if I had paid $345, I’d expect a lot more — like to be fired from this column for dereliction of duty. You also don’t need a car to get there — it’s a five-minute walk from the Greenport Long Island Rail Road and Hampton Jitney bus stop. Jeanny had driven us out there early Saturday morning, but she left early Sunday; I would stay for the day and take one of the frequent jitneys back, $19 to Manhattan. Advertisement Heading to a summer spot in the winter, of course, has its downsides. You can’t jump in the water and for after-dark excitement, you’ll have to turn to a John Grisham novel. But lines are nonexistent, and service tends to be impeccable, as you’ve got the full attention of servers and hotel clerks. Advertisement Having a car does have its advantages; if we hadn’t driven, we wouldn’t have stopped for an early lunch at Taqueria Mexico in Riverhead, the last town before Long Island splits. One thing you can count on from wealthy vacation areas is restaurants for immigrant workers somewhere on the periphery. Jeanny began her Frugal Traveler career by absolutely schooling me on ordering: she ordered one chicken tostada ($2) and asked our diminutive Guatemalan server to add beef to a $1.50 meatless tostada, for which we were charged an extra 50 cents. (My $8 order of three pathetic bean and cheese sopes for $8 was half as good for twice the price.) Once lodging is taken care of, the only danger of blowing the budget in the North Fork is the temptation of the pricey, local-ingredient-obsessed restaurants. Having sensed danger on the drive out when Jeanny had asked, “Where are we having dinner?” I decided to forestall any evening splurges with a snack-as-we-went approach. There were those tostadas, a $4 bag of six still-warm cider doughnuts at Wickham’s Fruit Farm (now closed for the season), three homemade pickles for $3 at Goodale Farms and a portion of black bean and grass-fed beef chili with blue corn tortilla chips for $10 from the food truck behind the fancy North Fork Table & Inn. In between, we fit in a visit to Horton’s Point Lighthouse (though you can’t enter in the winter), a walk on a nearby beach and a wine tasting at Lenz Winery, which we split for a $10 and which included four wines, including its well-regarded gewürztraminer. Once again beating me at my own game, Jeanny managed to weasel a fifth taste out of our server. We tried to go see the sunset from Orient Beach State Park, which hangs by a ligament off the tip of the North Fork, but the park closed at 4; a worker there directed us to the causeway, which turned out to be perfect. The evening was young, but night life expectancy is short during North Fork winters, so after dropping off our bags, we hurried over to catch the tail end of the 5 to 7 p.m. weekend happy hour at the Winemaker Studio in Peconic, a combination tasting room, bar and wine shop. Pours were 30 percent off, and we took advantage, ordering normally $7 glasses of a blend of reds from Suhru Wines in Mattituck. On advice from our server, we decided to end the evening with a drink at the bar at First and South, a fancy-ish restaurant back in Greenport. We found a cozy little small town bar scene there; we chatted up a local English teacher and got filled in on the honors curriculum at Riverhead High School, from Shakespeare to Elie Wiesel. (Jeanny and I first met as teachers in the 1990s, so we were actually quite interested.) I was a little worried we’d be tempted to eat from the pricey restaurant menu, so, along with a beer, I ordered what turned out to be the best deal on the menu, the $8 chowder loaded with smoked cod and apple wood bacon. Jeanny went rogue and ordered a shockingly insubstantial salad ($9 for “biodynamic” greens) and a bemusingly priced order of fries ($8). She would be paying for those herself. When Jeanny drove off the next morning, I set out to see just what was within walking distance of Greenport Village. (My plan was aided by some unseasonably balmy December weather.) Quite a bit, it turned out. A list of hiking trails the hotel gave me included paths in Inlet Pond County Park, just off Long Island Sound and about a one and half mile walk north. A Google Maps route sent me over back roads where traffic was limited to flitting robins, black-capped chickadees and the occasional cardinal. Its chosen route into the park, however, led through someone’s backyard and into what looked to be thick woods. After asking for directions, I looped around Sound Drive to just where the park met the water. But a gate and sign — “Private Beach” — stopped me. I was confused: How can a private beach be connected to a public park? But ever since a farmer in Arkansas scolded me for stepping onto his property to take an Instagram photo of some bales of hay, I’ve been averse to even seemingly harmless property rights violations. So I headed off-road, thrashing into the bramble that lay inside the park, catching my pants on thorns and wishing I had a machete. Advertisement Soon, though, I hit a trail, which looped around lovely Inlet Pond and, on several occasions, spurs that led right onto the beach. (So much for private.) Perhaps the walk would have been more traditionally lovely in the spring, but I quite liked the skeletal trees and windblown marsh grasses that gave it barren and blustery look. I came out at the trailhead Google Maps should have led me to in the first place, at a red house on Route 48 used by the North Fork Audubon Society. From there, it was an easy walk to Kontokosta Winery, just north of downtown Greenport on a bluff over the Sound. The long driveway through the vineyards themselves toward the tasting room — a rather regal-looking barn — makes for a dramatic approach. I’ll defer judgment on the wines to a more educated palate, but the servers were quite pleasant and the tasting (along with a walk out to the bluff) was certainly worth $10. It was not as good a deal, however, as the spot where I ended the trip after wandering through galleries and shops in town. North Fork tastings are not all about wine: at the Greenport Harbor Brewing Company, $8 gets you three ounces of each of seven beers — for a total of more than an English pint. I fell for the hoppy Other Side IPA, as well as for several of the very cute dogs hanging out in what turned out to be a canine-friendly, jam-packed local hangout. What it’s like in the summer, when it must fill with city folk, I have no idea — and, come to think of it, not much desire to find out. For more photos, go to Seth Kugel’s public Facebook page or follow him on Instagram, @sethkugel. An earlier version of this article misspelled the name of a farm on Long Island’s North Fork. It is Latham Farms, not Lathan. See More » Go to Home Page »
Business   Ezra Klein Is Said to Plan to Leave Washington Post. Advertisement Advertisement By RAVI SOMAIYAJAN. 2, 2014 Ezra Klein, an analyst, columnist and television commentator who runs The Washington Post’s Wonkblog, is making plans to leave the newspaper after failing to win support for a new website he wanted to create within the company, according to four people with knowledge of the negotiations. Mr. Klein, who quickly ascended into the ranks of the Washington media establishment with a multiplatform blend of policy nuance and number-crunching on Wonkblog, approached Katharine Weymouth, the Post’s publisher, in recent weeks, the people said. After consultation with the newspaper’s editor, Marty Baron, according to one of the people, he put forward a proposal with detailed revenue projections to build a new website dedicated to explanatory journalism on a wide range of topics beyond political policy. It would have been affiliated with The Post, the person said, but would have been a separate enterprise. The investment he sought, the person said, was in eight figures. Ms. Weymouth and the paper’s owner, Jeff Bezos, declined to support the project. Since then, Mr. Klein has had discussions with several potential investors and venture capitalists in an effort to start the website himself, said those with knowledge of his plans, who insisted on anonymity in discussing them. Though the atmosphere within The Post was described as civilized, one person said, there has been some awkwardness. Still, it is possible that Mr. Klein could remain at The Post if talks about his plans were rekindled. As 2013 drew to a close, Neil Irwin, the economics editor of Wonkblog, joined The New York Times. Mr. Klein has been on vacation in San Francisco. Both declined to comment, as did The Washington Post. Advertisement The Washington Post owns the name Wonkblog, said a person with knowledge of the arrangement, and could continue it even without Mr. Klein. News of Mr. Klein’s proposal for a new website was first reported by The Huffington Post. Several other journalists who had seen their brands grow at big media organizations have left to expand on their own. Nate Silver, widely lauded for the data analysis that led to his accurate prediction of the 2008 and 2012 presidential elections, left The Times in 2013 to build his own site, backed by ESPN. Walter S. Mossberg and Kara Swisher, who first came to prominence at The Wall Street Journal with their technology reporting and then built the AllThingsD technology news site and conference business, announced in the fall they were striking out on their own. They secured minority investment, renamed their site ReCode, and left Dow Jones officially this week. In an interview about that move earlier this week, Ms. Swisher said that they had decided against working in a large media company because “there is a lot of competition for resources, and there isn’t always the same willingness to take risks.” Mr. Klein is also a policy analyst for MSNBC, where he sometimes fills in for other hosts, and he writes for Bloomberg View. He is married to Annie Lowrey, a Times reporter. Because of an editing error, an article on Friday about the columnist Ezra Klein’s plans to leave The Washington Post, where he directs the popular Wonkblog, misspelled the given name of the newspaper’s publisher in some copies. She is Katharine Weymouth, not Katherine. A version of this article appears in print on January 3, 2014, on page B3 of the New York edition with the headline: Blogger Said to Plan to Leave The Post. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Food   Melissa Clark. The author and cook Melissa Clark takes you into her kitchen to show you how easy it can be to make exquisite and delicious meals.          Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics Obama, Dancing with the Star (Wars) Cuban Ballet School in Motion Best of Obama's Correspondents' Dinner Speech This Week’s Movies: May 6, 2016 Welfare and the Politics of Poverty Fort McMurray Wildfire Under Investigation Canada Wildfire Prompts Mass Evacuations Why It’s Hard to Keep the Pounds Off Cruz Responds to Trump’s Paternal Dig
Foreign   Prime Minister Rules Out Third Term. Advertisement NEW DELHI — Prime Minister Manmohan Singh said Friday that he would not be India’s next prime minister if the Congress Party-led United Progressive Alliance wins the national elections scheduled for this spring. “In a few months’ time, after the general election, I will hand the baton over to a new prime minister,” Mr. Singh said. “I hope it will be a U.P.A.-chosen prime minister, and our party will work to that end in the campaign for the general elections.” The prime minister also expressed his support for Rahul Gandhi, vice president of the Congress Party and scion of the powerful Gandhi family, as the party’s choice for the post of prime minister in the national elections. “Rahul Gandhi has outstanding credentials to be nominated, and I hope our party will take the decision at an appropriate time,” said Mr. Singh. At his first formal news conference since 2011, Mr. Singh defended a battered central government, which has faced serious allegations of corruption and inaction over the last decade, by calmly listing the achievements during his two terms, which now span nearly 10 years. He said the governing coalition has made efforts to combat corruption and initiate investigations after the government was accused of fraudulently allotting wireless phone licenses and coal fields to business groups. . “We have taken major steps to change the existing procedures for allocation of spectrum and coal by shifting to auctions so that these problems do not arise in future,” said Mr. Singh. “Where some decisions taken earlier, when allocations were made administratively, have come under question, they are being investigated,” he said. The scandals and a stagnant economy have taken a toll on the Congress Party’s fortunes at the polls. In recent state assembly elections, the party was routed in four states and managed to retain power only in the northeastern state of Mizoram. Congress’s main rival, the Bharatiya Janata Party, or B.J.P., retained power in the states of Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh and wrested the state of Rajasthan from the Congress Party. The B.J.P. also finished with the most number of seats in the city-state of Delhi with 31, while the Congress Party was reduced from 43 seats to eight. Mr. Singh’s strongest words were reserved for Narendra Modi, chief minister of Gujarat and the B.J.P.’s prime ministerial candidate. After a journalist asked Mr. Singh whether his party was responsible for his image as a weak prime minister, Mr. Singh said he did not believe that he had been an ineffectual leader and that it was up to the historians to judge him. “If by strong prime minister you mean that you preside over the mass massacre of innocent citizens in the streets of Ahmedabad, that is a measure of strength I don’t think this country needs, least of all, in its prime minister,” said Mr. Singh, referring to the violent riots that occurred in Gujarat in 2002 while Mr. Modi was the state’s chief minister. Mr. Singh added that he sincerely believed it would be disastrous for the country to have Mr. Modi as its prime minister. Rajnath Singh, president of the B.J.P., called the prime minister’s remarks unfortunate. “Narendra Modi was a leader who transformed Gujarat into a model state through development and progress, and saying that the country will go into ruins if he becomes the prime minister is very laughable,” the B.J.P. president told reporters. What happened in 2002 was a tragedy, he said, but he noted that both the Supreme Court and the court’s special investigation team cleared Mr. Modi of any responsibility for the riots. India’s national elections began April 7 and will continue on nine separate dates until May 12, with results expected to be announced on May 16. The vote is the world’s largest, with 814 million eligible voters set to choose 543 members of the lower house of Parliament. The other two seats will be appointed by the president. This election is widely considered to be India’s most consequential since 1977. India Ink will be moving to the World page of The New York Times. Read more… A memorial ceremony at the Imphal War Cemetery in Manipur to honor the soldiers who died during World War II.Read more… The newly elected prime minister reaches out to the public in a blog post about his first 30 days in office.Read more… Newborns whose mothers are unable to breastfeed are given stored breast milk to protect them from potentially life-threatening infection.Read more… In the final stage of a long decline, Hindustan Motors announced in May that it would suspend production of the Ambassador, a car that was once synonymous with style and status.Read more… This report on India from the journalists of The New York Times and a pool of talented writers in India and beyond provides unbiased, authoritative reporting on the country and its place in the world. India Ink also strives to be a virtual meeting point for discussion of this complex, fast-changing democracy – its politics, economy, culture and everyday life. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Health   The Weekly Health Quiz. View More Multimedia » In the news: bad laughter, cancer rates and nuts during pregnancy. Test your knowledge of this week’s health news.
Movies   Clip: 'Another Day Another Time'. Oscar Isaac, Marcus Mumford and the Punch Brothers perform “Fare Thee Well” in the documentary “Another Day Another Time,” which celebrates the music of “Inside Llewyn Davis.”          
Science   Are Sugary Drinks Fattening? Depends Who You Ask Sign Up for the Running Email. Advertisement Are there good scientific studies that show that drinking sugar-sweetened soda increases the risk for obesity? The answer may vary depending on who is paying for the study. Researchers examined 17 large reviews of the subject (one review assessed results for adults and children separately, so there were 18 sets of study conclusions). Six of the studies reported receiving funds from industry groups, including Coca-Cola, PepsiCo, the American Beverage Association and others. The other 12 reviews claimed no conflicts of interest. The analysis appears in the December issue of PLOS Medicine. Among the reviews with no conflicts of interest, 10 of 12, or 83.3 percent, reported that sugary drinks were directly associated with weight gain or obesity. The conclusions of studies supported by industry were a mirror image: five of six — the same 83.3 percent — reported that there was insufficient evidence to draw a conclusion. “I wouldn’t say that industry participation alone is enough to dismiss the study’s results in the whole of nutrition research,” said the lead author, Maira Bes-Rastrollo, a professor of preventive medicine at the University of Navarra in Spain. “But I think that the general public and the scientific community should be aware that the food industry has vested interests that may influence their conclusions.” A version of this article appears in print on 01/07/2014, on page D4 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Awareness: Assessing Sugary Drinks Fairly. Your health questions answered by Times journalists and experts. Your Questions | All » Get Well's Running email for practical tips, expert advice, exclusive content and a bit of motivation delivered to your inbox every week to help you on your running journey. Coming soon. How much do you know about the amazing things that go on in your gut? Take our quiz to find out about the creepy, crawly critters living in your home. What surface is the most friendly to the flu virus? Where’s the best place to stand when you’re talking to a sick person? How does sleep affect health, relationships and well-being? The “Reading the Mind in the Eyes Test” measures ability to understand others’ emotional states. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   N.F.L. Wild-Card Matchups. Advertisement Advertisement By BENJAMIN HOFFMANJAN. 3, 2014 Chiefs (11-5) at Colts (11-5)  4:35 p.m. Saturday Line: Colts by 2 The last time Kansas City won a playoff game, in January 1994, Joe Montana was the quarterback. He outdueled Warren Moon of the Houston Oilers with the help of Marcus Allen. Linebacker Derrick Thomas sacked Moon twice that day. If those names do not indicate how much time has passed, then perhaps this will drive home point: The No. 1 song that year was “The Sign” by Ace of Base. In the 20 years since, the Chiefs have never been truly relevant. But for the first nine games this season, the Chiefs were unbeatable. Quarterback Alex Smith was providing the stable, efficient skills that he honed in his last two seasons in San Francisco, Jamaal Charles was among the N.F.L.’s best running backs, and the defense was punishing opposing quarterbacks with a fearsome front seven. Then Kansas City largely fell apart, going 2-5 the rest of the way. Even the expected return of Justin Houston, the team’s best pass rusher, is offset by the potential for Tamba Hali, his partner in sacks, to miss the game with a knee injury. Indianapolis would be particularly vulnerable to the Chiefs at full strength, as pass protection has been an issue in Andrew Luck’s first two seasons. But in Week 16, the short-handed Chiefs sacked him only once and they lost, 23-7. The red-hot Colts will do everything they can to recreate that result. Advertisement Pick: Colts Saints (11-5) at Eagles (10-6) 8:10 p.m. Saturday Line: Eagles by 3 The funny thing about having an extreme home-field advantage is how little it means when a road game comes along. For New Orleans, which thrives in its raucous indoor atmosphere, playing away from home was an issue even before the Superdome was built. As a franchise, the Saints are 0-5 in road playoff games. The current team was no better than its predecessors during the regular season, going 3-5 on the road with the Drew Brees-led offense averaging 17.8 points a game. At home, the Saints were 8-0, scoring an average of 34 points a game. New Orleans needs its offense to figure out a way to win not only outside, but also in extreme cold. The forecast for Philadelphia called for temperatures in the low 20s. The Eagles offense is so dynamic that Nick Foles came off the bench to lead the league in quarterback rating and managed to overshadow LeSean McCoy, who led everyone in rushing yards by a wide margin. McCoy had 1,607 yards on the ground, and his closest competition was Chicago’s Matt Forte at 1,339. Keeping the game interesting will be Philadelphia’s subpar secondary, which allowed an N.F.L.-worst 289.8 passing yards a game and will give Brees at least a small chance of overcoming his team’s road woes. Pick: Eagles Chargers (9-7) at Bengals (11-5) 1:05 p.m. Sunday Line: Bengals by 7 Five players who appeared on the Cincinnati roster this season were not born the last time the Bengals won a playoff game, including Giovani Bernard, the dynamic rookie running back. But they are heavy favorites against San Diego, which defied the odds by qualifying for the playoffs on the season’s final day. The Chargers had help from the Bengals, whose win over the Ravens eliminated the competition. Philip Rivers was on fire at the end of the season, spurring San Diego by passing for 845 passing yards and nine touchdowns over the last four games. But winning on a cold Sunday afternoon in Cincinnati will be a tall order. The Bengals were tough at home this season, going 8-0 and shutting down Ben Roethlisberger, Aaron Rodgers, Andrew Luck and Joe Flacco. Cincinnati was also more of a force on offense, with Andy Dalton seeming to come into his own in his third season and throwing for a career-high 33 touchdowns. Despite his propensity for turnovers — his 20 interceptions were the most among playoff quarterbacks — he did enough to help out the Bengals’ stellar defense. Advertisement For the Chargers to win on the road, Rivers will need to continue his hot streak and their secondary, which struggled for most of the season, will have to play an uncharacteristically perfect game. Pick: Bengals 49ers (12-4) at Packers (8-7-1)  4:40 p.m. Sunday Line: 49ers by 3 These teams matched up in perhaps the most anticipated playoff game last season. This time the expectations are somewhat tempered because Green Bay barely managed a winning record and San Francisco’s offense looks much less explosive. All eyes will be on 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick, who ran for a playoff-record 181 yards against the Packers, then flipped the script, passing for 412 yards in this season’s Week 1 victory. The only thing left for him to do is to beat the Packers as a receiver. The season opener, however, was one of the few moments when Kaepernick provided the same level of excitement and production that he did in his breakout run to Super Bowl XLVII. He was still a force on offense with his arm and his legs, but Kaepernick occasionally struggled with accuracy and decision-making, leading to long scoring droughts. San Francisco, the preseason favorite in the N.F.C., looked like a second-class citizen compared with division rival Seattle. Kaepernick has been hot in the 49ers’ current six-game winning streak, and he should have plenty of motivation in facing his favorite opponent — and favorite team growing up. The conditions will be harsh, but San Francisco, with Frank Gore and Kaepernick, has the ability to grind out a game on the ground. If Eddie Lacy is not at full speed, the pass-happy Packers may find themselves grounded at home. Pick: 49ers Times are Eastern. Picks do not reflect the betting line. A version of this article appears in print on January 4, 2014, on page SP3 of the New York edition with the headline: Sunday's Matchups. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
U.S.   Abortion Restrictions Passed by States. Advertisement Advertisement State legislatures enacted 70 restrictions on abortion in 2013; over the past three years, they passed more of these laws than they did from 2000 to 2010. JAN. 3, 2014 Related Article Includes parental involvement requirements, bans on abortion at 6 or 12 weeks, ultrasound requirements and extended waiting periods. Other 23 Restrictions on abortion providers 9 Limitations on medication abortion 17 Amendments to abortion reporting laws 4 Like gender or fetal impairment Restrictions related to reason for abortion   4 Limitations on insurance coverage of abortion 10 22 weeks after a woman’s last menstrual period Bans on abortions at 20 weeks postfertilization 3 ENACTED IN 2013 80 restrictions 60 40 20 0 ’85 ’90 ’95 ’00 ’10 ’05 ’13 Source: Guttmacher Institute THE NEW YORK TIMES
Business   George Goodman, Who Demystified the World of Money, Dies at 83. Advertisement Advertisement By DOUGLAS MARTINJAN. 3, 2014 George J. W. Goodman, who demystified financial complexities in best-selling books and on a long-running public television program under the name of one of history’s most famous economists, Adam Smith, died on Friday in Miami. He was 83. The cause was complications of leukemia, his son, Mark, said. Mr. Goodman helped start Institutional Investor magazine in the 1960s. He was executive editor of Esquire in the 1970s. He wrote novels, nonfiction books and a popular children’s book. But he was probably best known as the amiable but intellectually rigorous host of “Adam Smith’s Money World,” seen on PBS from 1984 to 1997. Mr. Goodman did not choose the pseudonym Adam Smith, after the 18th-century philosopher who shaped the discipline of economics with his concept of an “invisible hand” that governed markets. Rather, it was given to him as a young journalist for New York magazine in the 1960s, to hide his identity from sensitive Wall Street sources. He hated the name at first and tried to change it, but he could not find out who had bestowed it, although many sources said it was Clay Felker, New York magazine’s founding editor. “Of course, after my books became successful, three people owned up,” Mr. Goodman said in an interview with The New York Times in 1981. Advertisement His first book as Adam Smith, “The Money Game,” published in the spring of 1968, became an immediate best seller and remained one for the rest of the year. In it, he posited that the machinations of money were high drama, understandable to the lay reader and, perhaps most important to the book’s success, humorous. The Wall Street Journal and The Washington Post both lauded it as a masterly exposition of mass psychology. Mr. Goodman followed up with more books about economics, including “Supermoney” (1972) and “Paper Money” (1981). In “Paper Money,” he made a joke about economists’ jargon that became famous in and out of the field: Stuck without tools on a desert island, an economist theorizes, “Assume a can opener.” In 1985, as “Adam Smith’s Money World” was beginning its run, Mr. Goodman told United Press International that the show was about money, not economics. “Everybody’s interested in money,” he said. “Money, food and sex, not necessarily in that order.” He continued, “As my Texas friends say, ‘Money ain’t everything, but everything won’t go out with you unless you’ve got it.’ ” George Jerome Waldo Goodman was born in Clayton, Mo., on Aug. 10, 1930. He graduated magna cum laude from Harvard, then studied political economy at Oxford as a Rhodes scholar. He served in the Army as an intelligence analyst in the mid-1950s, then wrote about various topics for Barron’s, Time, Fortune and other magazines. His passion in the 1950s was writing novels. His first was “The Bubble Makers” (1955), a story of conflict between a Harvard student and his wealthy grandfather. He had written it instead of a thesis at Oxford. Three subsequent novels were well received, with critics particularly complimentary about their dialogue. Mr. Goodman’s fourth novel, “The Wheeler Dealers” (1959), about the pyrotechnics between a Texas oil baron and a female broker, was made into a movie in 1963 starring James Garner and Lee Remick. Mr. Goodman wrote the screenplay. But he soon began focusing on economic matters, an interest he had demonstrated with his satirical treatment of upper-class characters in his novels. “I was curious to know why some people make money and others don’t,” he told Lear’s magazine in 1989. Advertisement He began managing what he told U.P.I. was “a small, aggressive mutual fund,” started a regular financial feature in New York magazine and helped found The Institutional Investor. As his economics books succeeded, he turned to television, where he employed graphics, interviews and even cartoons to clarify financial issues. “Adam Smith’s Money World” was broadcast in 40 countries. But the best part of “Adam Smith’s Money World,” John Corry wrote in The Times in 1984, was Mr. Goodman’s commentary. Mr. Goodman, he suggested, should spend more time “interviewing himself.” Mr. Goodman’s wife, the former Sallie Brophy, died in 2007. In addition to his son, he is survived by his daughter, Susannah Goodman; his partner, Lynda Richards; and three grandchildren. Mr. Goodman said his most widely read work may have been “Bascombe, the Fastest Hound Alive,” a children’s book he published in 1958. But it was his ability to evoke an emotional response to economic phenomenon that most defined his impact. “We are at a wonderful ball where the champagne sparkles in every glass and soft laughter falls upon the summer air,” he wrote of a high-flying stock market in “The Money Game.” “We know at some moment the black horsemen will come shattering through the terrace doors wreaking vengeance and scattering the survivors,” he continued. “Those who leave early are saved, but the ball is so splendid no one wants to leave while there is still time. So everybody keeps asking — what time is it? But none of the clocks have hands.” A version of this article appears in print on January 4, 2014, on page D7 of the New York edition with the headline: George Goodman, Who Demystified the World of Money, Dies at 83. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Foreign   Deadly Violence Erupts During Rallies Across Egypt. Advertisement Advertisement By KAREEM FAHIMJAN. 3, 2014 CAIRO — At least 13 people were killed as violence broke out during Muslim Brotherhood marches in several Egyptian cities on Friday, health officials said, in the deadliest day of clashes in months. The victims included protesters — one an 18-year-old college sophomore — and, apparently, bystanders. Brotherhood supporters said riot police officers had fired on their marches without provocation in some places, while the authorities said they had seized weapons from demonstrators. Dozens of people sustained gunshot and other injuries in violence that was the latest blow to the military-backed government, which is trying to impose stability just 10 days before Egyptians are set to vote on a draft constitution. Six months after the army’s ouster of President Mohamed Morsi, a Brotherhood leader, the grinding civil conflict between Mr. Morsi’s supporters and the government appears to be reaching another peak. The authorities are desperate to hold the constitutional referendum, seeing it as a chance to quiet unrest by marginalizing the Brotherhood with a public show of support for the government-sponsored charter. A strong showing, the official thinking goes, would bolster the government’s legitimacy, and restore momentum to a transitional plan that is supposed to lead to parliamentary and presidential elections. Before the vote, the authorities have stepped up a crackdown on opponents, arresting hundreds of Brotherhood supporters and non-Islamist activists. Advertisement The Brotherhood has responded to the government’s efforts to eradicate the movement — including, last month, officially designating it a terrorist group — by trying to project endurance and vowing to continue the protests. Brotherhood supporters have intensified their demonstrations on campuses, including Al-Azhar University in Cairo. On the past two Fridays, the traditional day of protest, Brotherhood leaders have mustered sizable crowds around the country. Fighting was reported on Friday in several cities, including Cairo, Alexandria and Ismailia. In Fayoum, a senior Brotherhood leader said, the authorities fired live ammunition at marches that had set off from three mosques after prayers, killing the student, Mahmoud Abdel-Aziz, and two men ages 31 and 52. In Cairo, one man was shot dead after yelling insults at Brotherhood protesters, a security official told the Reuters news agency. In Alexandria, an Associated Press cameraman reported seeing dozens of protesters armed with homemade pistols clashing with security forces. The Interior Ministry said in a statement that 17 of its officers had been injured with birdshot, and that 235 Brotherhood members had been arrested. Asmaa al Zohairy contributed reporting. A version of this article appears in print on January 4, 2014, on page A8 of the New York edition with the headline: Deadly Violence Erupts During Rallies Across Egypt. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Sports   Nadal Comes From Behind to Advance in Qatar. Advertisement Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSJAN. 4, 2014 Rafael Nadal reached the final of the Qatar Open by coming from behind to beat a qualifier, Peter Gojowczyk, 4-6, 6-2, 6-3. Nadal lost the first three games against Gojowczyk, ranked No. 162. But he raced to a 4-1 lead in the second and broke Gojowczyk’s serve in the third game of the decider. (AP) A version of this article appears in print on January 4, 2014, on page D6 of the New York edition with the headline: Sports Briefing | Tennis. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Business   50 Years Later, War on Poverty Is a Mixed Bag. Advertisement Advertisement By ANNIE LOWREYJAN. 4, 2014 WASHINGTON — To many Americans, the war on poverty declared 50 years ago by President Lyndon B. Johnson has largely failed. The poverty rate has fallen only to 15 percent from 19 percent in two generations, and 46 million Americans live in households where the government considers their income scarcely adequate. But looked at a different way, the federal government has succeeded in preventing the poverty rate from climbing far higher. There is broad consensus that the social welfare programs created since the New Deal have hugely improved living conditions for low-income Americans. At the same time, in recent decades, most of the gains from the private economy have gone to those at the top of the income ladder. Half a century after Mr. Johnson’s now-famed State of the Union address, the debate over the government’s role in creating opportunity and ending deprivation has flared anew, with inequality as acute as it was in the Roaring Twenties and the ranks of the poor and near-poor at record highs. Programs like unemployment insurance and food stamps are keeping millions of families afloat. Republicans have sought to cut both programs, an illustration of the intense disagreement between the two political parties over the best solutions for bringing down the poverty rate as quickly as possible, or eliminating it. For poverty to decrease, “the low-wage labor market needs to improve,” James P. Ziliak of the University of Kentucky said. “We need strong economic growth with gains widely distributed. If the private labor market won’t step up to the plate, we’re going to have to strengthen programs to help these people get by and survive.” Advertisement In Washington, President Obama has called inequality the “defining challenge of our time.” To that end, he intends to urge states to expand their Medicaid programs to poor, childless adults, and is pushing for an increase in the minimum wage and funding for early-childhood programs. But conservatives, like Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, have looked at the poverty statistics more skeptically, contending that the government has misspent its safety-net money and needs to focus less on support and more on economic and job opportunities. “The nation should face up to two facts: poverty rates are too high, especially among children, and spending money on government means-tested programs is at best a partial solution,” Ron Haskins of the Brookings Institution wrote in an assessment of the shortfalls on the war on poverty. Washington already spends enough on antipoverty programs to lift all Americans out of poverty, he said. “To mount an effective war against poverty,” he added, “we need changes in the personal decisions of more young Americans.” Advertisement Still, a broad range of researchers interviewed by The New York Times stressed the improvement in the lives of low-income Americans since Mr. Johnson started his crusade. Infant mortality has dropped, college completion rates have soared, millions of women have entered the work force, malnutrition has all but disappeared. After all, when Mr. Johnson announced his campaign, parts of Appalachia lacked electricity and indoor plumbing. Many economists argue that the official poverty rate grossly understates the impact of government programs. The headline poverty rate counts only cash income, not the value of in-kind benefits like food stamps. A fuller accounting suggests the poverty rate has dropped to 16 percent today, from 26 percent in the late 1960s, economists say. But high rates of poverty — measured by both the official government yardstick and the alternatives that many economists prefer — have remained a remarkably persistent feature of American society. About four in 10 black children live in poverty; for Hispanic children, that figure is about three in 10. According to one recent study, as of mid-2011, in any given month, 1.7 million households were living on cash income of less than $2 a person a day, with the prevalence of the kind of deep poverty commonly associated with developing nations increasing since the mid-1990s. Both economic and sociological trends help explain why so many children and adults remain poor, even putting the effects of the recession aside. More parents are raising a child alone, with more infants born out of wedlock. High incarceration rates, especially among black men, keep many families apart. About 30 percent of single mothers live in poverty. In some cases, government programs have helped fewer families because of program changes and budget cuts, researchers said. For instance, the 1996 Clinton-era welfare overhaul drastically cut the cash assistance available to needy families, often ones headed by single mothers. Advertisement “As of 1996, we expected single mothers to go to work,” Professor Ziliak said. “But if they’re shelling out most of their weekly pay in the form of child care, they can’t make sense of doing it.” The more important driver of the still-high poverty rate, researchers said, is the poor state of the labor market for low-wage workers and spiraling inequality. Over the last 30 years, growth has generally failed to translate into income gains for workers — even as the American labor force has become better educated and more skilled. About 40 percent of low-wage workers have attended or completed college, and 80 percent have completed high school. Economists remain sharply divided on the reasons, with technological change, globalization, the decline of labor unions and the falling value of the minimum wage often cited as major factors. But with real incomes for a vast number of middle-class and low-wage workers in decline, safety-net programs have become more instrumental in keeping families’ heads above water. The earned-income tax credit, for instance, has increased employment among single mothers and kept six million Americans above the poverty line in 2011. Food stamps, formally known as Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program benefits, kept four million Americans out of poverty in 2011. Above all, the government has proved most successful in aiding the elderly through the New Deal-era Social Security program and the creation of Medicare in the 1960s. The poverty rate among older Americans fell to just 9 percent in 2012 from 35 percent in 1959. But for working-age households, both conservatives and liberals agree that government transfer programs alone cannot eliminate poverty. The answer, the White House has said, is in trying to improve households’ earnings before tax and transfer programs take effect. “Going forward, the biggest potential gains that could be made on poverty would be in raising market incomes,” said Jason Furman, the chairman of Mr. Obama’s Council of Economic Advisers. “In the short run, that means things like the minimum wage, and in the long run, things like early education.” If Congress approved a proposal to raise the federal minimum wage to $10.10 an hour from its current level of $7.25, it would reduce the poverty rate of working-age Americans by 1.7 percentage points, lifting about five million people out of poverty, according to research by Arindrajit Dube of the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. But in the meantime, the greatest hope for poorer Americans would be a stronger economic recovery that brought the unemployment rate down from its current level of 7 percent and drew more people into the work force. The poverty rate for full-time workers is just 3 percent. For those not working, it is 33 percent. A version of this article appears in print on January 5, 2014, on page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: 50 Years Later, War on Poverty Is a Mixed Bag. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Foreign   Strategic Corridor in West Bank Remains a Stumbling Block in Mideast Talks. Advertisement Advertisement By ISABEL KERSHNERJAN. 4, 2014 BARDALA, West Bank — The residents of this neglected Palestinian farming village in the northern Jordan Valley area of the West Bank say they get running water once every three days, which they store in bottles and cisterns. The neighboring Jewish settlement of Mehola is a small paradise by comparison, with green lawns and a swimming pool. The contrasts across this stark landscape of jagged hills reflect the complexities of the fierce contest for control of the Jordan Valley, and the challenges the Palestinians face in administration. As Israeli and Palestinian negotiators struggle to make headway on peace talks initiated by Secretary of State John Kerry, they have remained bitterly at odds over the strategic corridor that runs between the populous heartland of the West Bank and the border with Jordan. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel insists on maintaining a long-term Israeli military presence along the border to prevent infiltrations and weapons smuggling from the east. Some in his Likud Party say there is no security or strategic depth without the settlements and argue that Israel should annex the area permanently. The Palestinians insist that Israel withdraw its forces and settlements so they can control their own borders as part of an independent and sovereign state. But for the residents of the Jordan Valley, where the long summers are intense and the black flies ubiquitous, the diplomatic jockeying is secondary to the hard realities facing two intertwined, adversarial communities. While settlers worry they will lose their homes, the Palestinians, who view the fertile valley as the breadbasket of a future state, are concerned that Israel will continue to control nearly all the water and land. Advertisement “We live at their mercy,” said Dirar Sawafta, an employee of the Bardala village council. Some 60,000 Palestinians live here in scattered villages and the ancient oasis city of Jericho. They farm about 8,600 acres of the land, much of it leased from wealthy Palestinian landowners in Jerusalem and Nablus. Many complain of mismanagement and dysfunction on the part of the Palestinian Authority, which administers Jericho and the villages, as well as the strictures of Israeli military rule. The 6,500 Israeli settlers live in 21 small communities interspersed with army bases. Farming nearly 13,000 acres, they use treated wastewater to irrigate their abundant date groves and employ 6,000 Palestinians in a thriving agricultural enterprise adapted to the semitropical climate. Advertisement Palestinian leaders contend that Israel wants to remain here indefinitely out of economic interests. Saeb Erekat, the chief negotiator, who lives in Jericho and represents the Jordan Valley in the Palestinian legislature, listed the settlers’ assets: “The biggest palm farms, the biggest grape farms, turkey farms and alligator lakes.” Yet the Jordan Valley settlers — many of whom came in search of a pastoral life under the aegis of security-minded Labor-led governments after the 1967 war — live with growing uncertainty that the government will support their continued presence there. In 1997, during his first term as prime minister, Mr. Netanyahu wrote a letter to the settlers saying that “the Jordan Valley will be an integral part of the state of Israel under any agreement.” But many settlers here note that Mr. Netanyahu now speaks only of maintaining a military presence. In Bardala, the issues are complex, as occupation and internal Palestinian problems have left the wells dry. Before Israel conquered the area from Jordan in 1967, Bardala’s water came from a nearby spring. But the Israelis dug a deeper well nearby. “Ours dried up,” Mr. Sawafta said. A deal was made in the 1970s, and the Oslo peace accords of the 1990s brought new water agreements, but with the second uprising in 2000, Palestinians stopped paying their water and electricity bills to the Palestinian Authority. The Bardala council owes the authority about two million shekels (more than $560,000) in unpaid utility bills. So, Mr. Sawafta said, the authority has delayed funding for projects like new roads, a dam and a water network in the village. Israel deducts the utility debts from the tax revenue it collects on behalf of the authority. Then the ever-cash-poor Palestinian government uses the rest to pay its employees’ salaries. Advertisement After that, there is little left to aid the farmers. Rifaat Hamdallah Daraghmeh, a Palestinian who employs 15 families on a farm he runs in the Jiftlik area of the valley and sells produce in Israel, said the authority owed him 300,000 shekels (about $85,000) in unpaid tax refunds over the past four years. Abdul Ghaffar Dawabshe, the deputy director of the Palestinian Ministry of Agriculture department in Jericho, said there were 60 such cases in his office. Khirbet Makhoul, a Bedouin-style encampment in the northern Jordan Valley, has in recent months become a symbol of the continuing struggle over every inch of Jordan Valley land. In September, Israeli army bulldozers arrived at dawn and razed all the temporary structures, including those that housed animals and people. Supporters brought new tents, but the army came back three more times. The women and children moved to permanent homes in Tamoun, a village near Nablus. “We used to live like kings,” said Ashraf Bisharat, 30, a member of one of the dozen or so families raising livestock here, who noted that before September, the bare hillside was filled with animal shelters. Makhoul sits between three army bases, and soldiers in training provide a steady background noise of booms and gunfire. Israeli defense officials said the shelters had been destroyed because they were erected without permits. The families have refused to leave the land they say they have owned or leased for decades. Now the authority is helping them register their plots and obtain permits. One animal shelter was rebuilt. Some of the local men were sleeping under nylon sheets, each on the ruins of his family tent. Most of the Jordan Valley is classified as Area C, the part of the West Bank that remains under full Israeli control. Permits, whether for agricultural packing houses or zinc-roofed shacks, are hard to come by, and demolitions take place almost daily. For now, the Jewish settlers are guarding their positions, too. After two Palestinians from the Hebron area bludgeoned a retired Israeli colonel to death in October in the yard of his home in Brosh Habika, an isolated tourism village here, yeshiva students and families from a nearby religious settlement temporarily moved into the holiday chalets to reinforce and demonstrate a presence. In recent years, the settlers have planted part of a demilitarized zone between the border security fence and the actual border along the Jordan River with thousands of date palms. Children of the founders of the settlements who left for the city are now returning, attracted by cheap housing and rural community living. This week, a senior Likud minister dedicated a new neighborhood in Gitit, a remote, once-secular settlement that has been revived by an influx of religious settlers. Advertisement “It took us 30 years to understand what to grow and how to grow it,” David Alhayani, the Likud head of the settlers’ Jordan Valley Regional Council, said in a recent interview. Mr. Alhayani runs an herb farm in his hilltop settlement, Argaman, where he employs more than 20 Palestinians. He spoke of quiet friendship and cooperation with his workers and some local Palestinian notables. “They called us pioneers, salt of the earth, the true Zionists,” he said of the Israeli mainstream. Now, he said, the Labor Party and many others seem to have abandoned the Jordan Valley settlers. “We came because our government sent us here — all the governments of Israel,” he added. “If the Israeli government decides differently, we will accept the decision.” Said Ghazali contributed reporting. A version of this article appears in print on January 5, 2014, on page A11 of the New York edition with the headline: Strategic Corridor in West Bank Remains a Stumbling Block in Mideast Talks. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Society   A Romance Goes From Head to Heart. Advertisement Advertisement By MARGAUX LASKEYJAN. 5, 2014 Barbara Catherine Galletly and Grant Olney Passmore were married Saturday by the Rev. Davis Bailey, a Presbyterian minister, at the Four Seasons Hotel in Philadelphia. In August, the bride, 30, received a master’s in information studies from the University of Texas. Until 2011, she was a literary agent at Georges Borchardt in New York. She graduated from Brown. She is a daughter of Catherine G. Galletly and Donald R. Galletly of Wayne, Pa. The bride’s father is a senior vice president at Devine & Partners, a public relations firm in Philadelphia. Her mother, now retired, worked in Houston as a senior vice president for financial institutions at Bank of America. The groom, also 30, is a mathematical researcher at the University of Edinburgh, and a singer and songwriter. He graduated from University of Texas and received a certificate in mathematical logic from the Mathematical Research Institute in the Netherlands. He holds a Ph.D. in automated theorem-proving and high-dimensional geometry from the University of Edinburgh. He is the son of Donna O. Passmore and Dr. John M. Passmore of Sugar Land, Tex. The groom’s mother is a founder of Values Through History, an educational nonprofit there that creates American history curriculums for schools. His father is a cardiologist at Methodist Diagnostic Cardiology of Houston. Advertisement Mr. Passmore had heard about Ms. Galletly long before they came in direct contact, primarily through Ms. Galletly’s sister, Patrice, a co-worker of his own sister. In January 2012, he happened to click on a link found on Patrice Galletly’s Facebook page that led to an essay written by Barbara Galletly, who within a short period had moved from New York to Los Angeles to Austin. It was titled “Doing This Again.” Mr. Passmore could relate. “It was a beautiful piece,” he said. “I was a Ph.D. student, and I moved around like crazy. She was having a similar nomadic 20s.” When he sent her an email, Ms. Galletly was delightfully stunned. She, in turn, responded, “Oh, my goodness, I’ll never have a fan again.” And so began a seven-month trans-Atlantic correspondence about their passions and pursuits. They discussed early Internet culture and digital preservation. He tutored her in calculus and statistics (skills she needed for graduate school), and she taught him about literary theory. They shared a Dropbox folder through which they shared music, pictures and articles. “I remember having to work up the courage to call it Our Folder,” Mr. Passmore said. “It was a real intellectual romance.” At one point, she copied and pasted their correspondence into a Word document. It was 300 pages long. Yet they still hadn’t talked on the phone. They finally met in the summer of 2012, when she was working as an intern in the library and archive at the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in New York, and Mr. Passmore was on a project at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh. While there was an almost immediate connection and a sense of comfort with each other, when she picked him up at the airport, they were both nervous, Ms. Galletly particularly so. “I didn’t want it to be ruined,” she said. She came around, and two days later they shared their first kiss. Advertisement “It was like, ‘Oh my gosh, what could be better?’ ” she said. “I feel like I won the lottery.” MARGAUX LASKEY A version of this article appears in print on January 5, 2014, on page ST11 of the New York edition with the headline: A Romance Goes From Head to Heart. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Sports   After Long Wait, Good Things Come to Visiting Saints. Advertisement Advertisement By BILL PENNINGTONJAN. 5, 2014 PHILADELPHIA — The New Orleans Saints joined the N.F.L. in 1967 and did not make the playoffs for 20 years. It took the Saints another 13 years to win a playoff game. And Saturday night, 46 seasons after their debut in the N.F.L., they finally won a road playoff game. The Saints’ 26-24 win Saturday in an N.F.C. wild-card game in Philadelphia, sealed with a 32-yard field goal by Shayne Graham on the game’s final play, was more than a franchise playoff milestone. To the players, it helped them begin to move away from a 2012 season marred by a bounty scandal. “It’s a new team and a new year,” said New Orleans quarterback Drew Brees, who has been with the Saints through the bad and the good, including the team’s Super Bowl victory after the 2009 season. “We’re not living off the glory or the mistakes of the past. We’re making a new history and hopefully we’re only going to get better.” Saints Coach Sean Payton, who was suspended last year by the N.F.L., was also eager to look forward. “This team has the resolve to overcome many distractions,” Payton said. “With all the other stuff that’s gone on, including last year, we’ve now got 12 wins. And we won on the road. I thought we traveled pretty well tonight.” An uneven game that began sleepily suddenly turned electrifying and tense in the fourth quarter as Philadelphia quarterback Nick Foles and Brees dueled throughout a seesaw final quarter. The outcome left the Saints (12-5) on their way to face the Seattle Seahawks next weekend. The Eagles’ season ended but not after a surprisingly successful year that saw them win 10 games and go to first place in the N.F.C. East from last. Advertisement “We’re all proud of how far we went,” Philadelphia wide receiver Riley Cooper said. “But everybody wants to win more — win everything. All I can say is that we’re headed in the right direction.” With the Saints leading by 23-17 midway through the fourth quarter, Foles led the Eagles on a 77-yard scoring drive. The key sequence was a pass interference penalty on Saints cornerback Corey White that netted Philadelphia 40 yards and gave them a first down at the New Orleans 3-yard line. Two plays later, Foles threw to Zach Ertz for the go-ahead touchdown and a 24-23 Eagles lead with less than five minutes to play. But the Saints’ Darren Sproles returned the ensuing kickoff 39 yards and there was a 15-yard penalty for a horse-collar tackle tacked onto the end of the return. Two plays later, the Saints had advanced to the Eagles 35-yard line. The Saints methodically worked the football closer to the end zone, trying to use up as much clock as possible. With three seconds remaining in the game, the Saints took their final time out setting up the winning kick, Graham’s fourth field goal of the game. Graham was another new face of the New Orleans turnaround. Three weeks ago, he was not on the roster. That was when Graham was brought in to replace the slumping place kicker Garrett Hartley. “He’s been unbelievable,” Payton said. “Each one of those kicks tonight was down the middle. He was a rock out there.” With the final score of the game, the teams had combined for 16 points in the fourth quarter and 37 in the second half. Trailing by 7-6 at the start of the second half, the Saints seemed intent on establishing the run game and it was a successful strategy. As much as Brees played well in the second half, and completed 20 of 30 passes for 250 yards over all, the Saints running backs rushed for 185 yards and averaged more than 5 yards per carry. Advertisement Mark Ingram, playing for the injured starting running back Pierre Thomas, ran for 97 yards on 18 attempts and had pivotal runs in the Saints’ first scoring drive of the second half. That series culminated with a 24-yard touchdown pass from Brees to Lance Moore. It was a typically intricate Saints play. With multiple receivers working the sidelines, Brees waited in the pocket as Moore, releasing late and working underneath the other receivers, sprung free in the middle of the field for the touchdown. That score put New Orleans ahead and Brees helped extend the lead with some effective deep downfield passing that led to a 4-yard touchdown run by Ingram that gave New Orleans a 20-7 advantage in the third quarter. But the Eagles decided that they could run the football, too, and behind LeSean McCoy mounted an eight-play touchdown drive that cut the New Orleans lead to 20-14. When Saints starting cornerback Keenan Lewis was sidelined with a head injury, his absence seemed to unleash the Eagles talented wide receiver DeSean Jackson. He caught two passes and also had a 29-yard punt return that set up a 31-yard field goal by Alex Henery that cut the Saints’ lead to 20-17 early in the fourth quarter. But Brees managed to rally the Saints again, connecting with wide receiver Robert Meacham for 40 yards down the middle of the field — a reception that led to a 35-yard field goal by Graham and a 23-17 New Orleans lead. Though much was made of the Saints having to play in the winter elements of the Northeastern corridor as opposed to the domed stadium in New Orleans where they were undefeated this season, the game was played in relatively benign conditions. The game time temperature was 25 degrees with only a 5-mile-an-hour wind. So bad weather was not an excuse for the sloppy play by both teams in the early going. Brees threw two first-half interceptions and Foles, the league’s top-rated passer, had just 98 passing yards in the first two quarters. Foles would finish the game with only 195 passing yards as he completed 23 of 33 passes. While the Eagles held a 1-point lead at halftime, it was the Saints who were buoyed in the locker room at intermission. “We knew we would be all right if we stopped shooting ourselves in the foot,” Payton said. In the Saints locker room afterward, most of the conversation was about finally getting a road playoff victory after five losses away from home in the postseason. New Orleans tackle Zach Strief was asked if he thought questions about the Saints’ road playoff woes would now cease. “Probably not,” Strief said. “Now we go to Seattle, where it’s tough to play. It will come up all week again.” A version of this article appears in print on January 5, 2014, on page SP3 of the New York edition with the headline: After Long Wait, Good Things Come to Visiting Saints. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Travel   Traveling While Black. Advertisement Advertisement By FARAI CHIDEYAJAN. 3, 2014 As I walked through the Forbidden City, the majestic imperial palace at the center of Beijing, with a friend and her teenager, I scanned the crowd. In the maze of shrines and courtyards, there was no one quite like us: I am an African-American with long dreadlocks, and my friend, Maria, a Mexican-American, had her half-Dominican son in tow. And yet, we were nearly invisible — at least to the guards checking the bags of Chinese tourists, possibly for materials that could be used in protests at this landmark, which adjoins Tiananmen Square. We passed through checkpoint after checkpoint unhindered, while Chinese people were stopped and their bags searched. Sure, we got a couple of stares from people. But no one touched our hair, pointed or acted hostile — which has happened to me as a tourist even in the United States. Once again, my travels had taken me to a place — not just a physical but a mental place — where the rules as I knew them had changed. That is partly what drives my wanderlust. And I am part of a sizable fellowship of African-Americans on a mission to see the world. Seventeen percent of African-Americans take one or more international trips a year, and we spend $48 billion on travel in the United States alone, according to the Mandala Research firm. That amount may be smaller than spending by other (not mutually exclusive) niche groups like LGBT travelers ($70 billion). But, according to analysts at MMGY Global, a marketing firm, black travel has rebounded since 2008, which is notable considering that the great recession doubled the gap between black and white wealth. When you look at per capita income, our travel spending is significant. Yet for all of that buying power, major hospitality companies and tour operators often steer clear of targeting African-Americans. After all, it’s complicated. Hoteliers are promoting women-only floors, but that idea would be anathema to black travelers, who are concerned about getting equal and respectful treatment from staff members. Similarly, tour operators pushing gay-friendly getaways would not be wise to advertise trips as “black-friendly.” We are a niche that it seems shouldn’t exist in a country that aspires to be postracial. As a result, minority travelers are mainly paving our own path, guided by ourselves, our social and professional networks and by bloggers. We are a largely untapped market, exploring the world without being aggressively sold an itinerary on how to do it. That means there are few guidebooks or tour operators to prepare me for the moment of surprise that I experienced in the Forbidden City. And it is one of the reasons that travel right now feels more freeing than ever. Advertisement For African-Americans, domestic and international exploration used to be filled with significant roadblocks. From the late 19th century until the civil rights era, the lack of parity in pay left African-Americans with little to spend on leisure (a disparity that continues to this day); segregation meant substandard seats and service on public transportation; and finding lodging on the road if you were black, in particular, was a challenge, especially in the South. “The Negro Traveler’s Green Book” was published from 1936 until 1964 to give black travelers a list of places where it was safe to stay and to stop. Published by a postal worker named Victor H. Green, the book was used by thousands of African-Americans as they crisscrossed the United States by car. Green optimistically wrote in one edition: “There will be a day sometime in the near future when this guide will not have to be published. That is when we as a race will have equal opportunities and privileges in the United States.” As part of the generation that came after Green’s last edition, I was raised to believe that the world was mine by my Zimbabwean father and my African-American mother, a Baltimore native who headed off to Morocco to serve in the Peace Corps. When I was 5, I traveled with my mother and younger sister to visit my father’s family in what was then apartheid-like Rhodesia. I remember meeting my grandparents and scores of cousins, many of whom did not speak English, and sitting with the family at sunset, eating chewy maize roasted over the fire. It was the first time I felt a specific comforting heart-song, repeated over the years in places like the outdoor terrace cafe of the Louvre in Paris to the top of Mount Tamalpais in Northern California. That feeling can take on particular meaning because it disrupts double-consciousness — the term coined by W. E. B. DuBois to explain the necessity of African-Americans to constantly regard themselves through others’ eyes. As a black traveler, I seek liberation through exploration and find myself seeming freer, at least in mind and heart, on the road than at home. Many others feel that way, too. Elaine Lee is one such kindred spirit. She runs the site Ugogurl.com, which features a picture of Ms. Lee hefting an ice ax at the top of a New Zealand glacier. A lawyer by trade, she’s also the editor of the anthology “Go Girl: The Black Woman’s Book of Travel and Adventure.” “Travel is the music of my soul,” Ms. Lee said. “The biggest surprise about traveling internationally was to discover that in many parts of the world, it is an asset to be a black woman, unlike in North America, where it is often a liability. Travel to Africa is among the most healing of all. You go there and get part of your soul back.” The idea that travel is a soul-stirring experience was echoed by Greg Gross, who got a taste for traveling when, as a child, he went from New Orleans to Los Angeles on the Sunset Limited. A former newspaper journalist, Mr. Gross started the blog ImBlackNITravel.com (I’m Black and I Travel) six years ago after coming across a black woman in Natchez, Miss., who proudly said she never intended to set foot outside the limits of her native city. Though he’s traveled the world, he says his most emotionally resonant moment happened in the United States, in the nation’s capital: “I walked over to the Lincoln Memorial. I wanted to stand on the exact step where Martin Luther King Jr. had stood to give his famed ‘I Have a Dream’ speech, to see the view that he saw that day. And I found it. To be in that place, to look out over that same vista, was a moment more powerful than I can explain.  I couldn’t talk. I could barely breathe. I was not the same when I came down off those steps.” There are other, more practical benefits particular to black travelers, like the ability to blend in. Brian Keith Jackson, a novelist who sometimes contributes text and film to the work of the artist Kehinde Wiley, has lived in Beijing, far from his northern Louisiana roots. “In many places, because most of the Western world has been white and has projected their images as white, black skin means Africa, not America,” he said. “Although I’m an American, people don’t view me as an American.” Mr. Jackson, who has short-cropped hair, believes that his pecan skin tone, and the perceptions around it, “helped me in my travels, because everyone thinks I’m from there, certainly in Sri Lanka.” Brown skin that’s often perceived as “otherness” in parts of America is not seen that way in much of the world. After traveling to more than 25 countries (and 48 of the states), I call being brown in a region of brown-skinned people “masking.” I experienced it in southern India, where many people were similar shades of brown as me or darker. I was not mistaken for being a local, but I could circulate less conspicuously than fair-skinned visitors. I took advantage of my skin color (and some common-sense cultural and street smarts, like dressing modestly, showing no valuables and staying alert) to go solo and explore low-income areas of Mumbai that the guards at my luxury hotel had warned me against visiting. My reward: I was invited to lunch at the home of a family, where an older couple and their son and daughter-in-law shared a two-room house. Advertisement That isn’t to say that the experience of traveling while black is one high note after the other. There are bias attacks on blacks in the United States and abroad. Last year, for example, the United States State Department issued an advisory, still in effect, about Greece warning that “there has been a rise in unprovoked harassment and violent attacks against persons who, because of their complexion, are perceived to be foreign migrants. U.S. citizens most at risk are those of African, Asian, Hispanic, or Middle Eastern descent.” And there are high-profile but low-danger incidents, as when Oprah Winfrey was denied a look at a $38,000 purse in Switzerland — “too expensive,” the billionaire said a sales assistant told her. (Of course, not many of us, black or white, are in that league.) That may be why travel patterns are still very much shaped by race. According to Mandala, African-Americans are most likely to visit Florida and Georgia. African-Americans and Latinos are more likely than the general American population to seek our historic attractions; three-quarters of African-American leisure travelers say it’s a critical factor in their choices. Group travel is twice as popular among African-Americans than whites, according to Charlie Presley, the founder of the African-American Travel Conference, perhaps pointing to a sense of security in numbers as well as the proliferation of black interest clubs and professional groups. These clubs help drive black tourism, exposing us to new destinations. Ms. Lee, for example, said that when she made a rare trip to Utah (which is less than 2 percent African-American) with the National Black Ski Association (a.k.a. National Brotherhood of Skiers), “I was pleasantly surprised by the Utahans’ friendly reception of our color-full group. The N.B.S. members typically boost local economies to the tune of $3 million during their weeklong summits.” And bloggers are also pushing black Americans to get out and see our country in all its natural glory. Barry and Cindy Rock, originally from Boston and now living in Georgia, run the site Camping in Color (campingincolor.blogspot.com), which addresses the specific fears about what it’s like to camp — a fear that can encompass both nature and other campers. “I think most folks need to just relax a little bit because everywhere you go in this country you’ll come across somebody who doesn’t like you,” Mr. Rock said. “They may give you a dirty look, but that’s not something that’s going to stop us from enjoying our country.” He continued: “We [black Americans] are as much a part of this country, maybe even more, than a lot of people who are here now so we have the right, and we’re going to take the right, to go anywhere we want to go.” The couple blogs about African-American culture and community throughout the country as well as the pleasures of being outdoors. They’ve since taken scores of friends and family members into the woods, and created a wide circle of explorers via their own trips and their blog. Plenty rely on advice from bloggers like the Rocks, Ms. Lee and Mr. Gross. But often, the circle of explorers on the road grows organically, without any digital intervention, the way it always has. Beandrea July, an artist based in Washington, found that as she traveled in Kauai in 2008, the road opened before her. “I forced my introvert self to go to the farmers’ market around the corner and chat with some people. In so doing I scored an invitation and a ride that night to a barbecue on a fruit farm.” She met another black American on a bus, and the two women traveled throughout the Hawaiian island. “While eating dinner one day, this black guy walked by, and we all looked at each other,” she said. “About an hour later he was taking us out in his kayaks for a tour. This trip was all about abundance, and asking and receiving.” Advertisement For those of us blacks who travel — domestically or internationally, with financial ease or by saving for years — the world can be our playground, our teacher, our beloved. We just have to remember one thing I was lucky enough to learn as a child, and one that I was reminded of in Beijing that fall day. This world can be our place, too. Farai Chideya is an author, broadcaster, and journalism professor at New York University. She blogs at Farai.com. A version of this article appears in print on January 5, 2014, on page TR1 of the New York edition with the headline: Traveling While Black. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
U.S.   Democrats Quote the Pope. Democrats are using the words of Pope Francis in their speeches about poverty, income inequality and social justice.          
Books   The Read Around: Nikki Giovanni. “Poetry prevents everybody from feeling lonely,” says Nikki Giovanni. Her latest book, “Chasing Utopia,” is a collection of poetry, recipes and short stories.                  
Business   Daniel Finkel’s Stained Glass Window Problem. Advertisement In this week’s puzzle by Daniel Finkel we continue to follow an itinerant nun who most recently made her way to a shrine in the holy town of Duona. We now join her in some construction work. Having reached the shrine (see Pilgrim’s Puzzle), the pilgrim is put to work making stained glass windows. Following doctrine, she is told to create a frame for the window by connecting the midpoints of a square. Later, the frame is filled in with colored glass. After spending several days building identical frames, she goes to the supervising nun. Pilgrim: Can’t we build the frame in some other way? Supervising Nun: It is written that for these windows, we must connect a point on each side of the square to make a four-sided shape. It is also written that this shape must take up exactly half the square. Verily, as the outside square contains 16 squares, so must the area of the four-sided figure created inside be equal to 8 squares. Pilgrim: But surely there are other ways to do it! I’ve been connecting 2, 5, 8 and 11 over and over. Couldn’t I try 1, 4, 7 and 10, or 1, 6, 9 and 12? I’m sure that there are other ways to take up half the square. Supervising Nun: A novice once tried to convince us that 1, 6, 8 and 11 occupied 8 square units. In reviewing the design we determined it occupied only 7.5. The novice was expelled, and her window frame destroyed. You may investigate the issue on your own time, but violating the doctrine is prohibited. Can the pilgrim find another four-sided shape that touches each side of the square at one of the numbered points and takes up exactly half the area of the original square? If so, how many such four-sided figures are there? That completes this week’s puzzle. Daniel Finkel and his partner Katherine Cook make up the Seattle-based team Math for Love, which believes every student should experience the thrill of mathematical discovery, and very teacher can appreciate the elegance of a great mathematical insight. Math for Love is out to change the culture of mathematics, and they’re starting with love. They’re also out to break things. Here’s Dr. Finkel with a resolution for the new year: Let’s talk about breaking mathematics. We are taught to believe that math is a magical alchemical process. There are these delicate procedures, and you have to sprinkle in exactly the right elements in exactly the right way, spin a black cat around your head, and if you do everything perfectly then you get to find out what 4/5 of 75 is, or what the derivative of (sin x)(cos x) is. The right answer, we’re taught, emerges only if you cast the spell exactly right; if you don’t do them right, well, then dead end. The truth is, this is dead-end thinking. Math isn’t magic and it’s not a religion. And the quickest way to find this out, and take control of your education, is to start breaking the rules. What does this mean in practice? Question, push, doubt conventional wisdom, and encourage your students and children to do the same. That’s what the Pilgrim is doing in this puzzle. She’s given a procedure with one “right” way of doing it, and pushes to see if it can be done another way. And there’s no limit to how far we can go. If our original puzzle uses a square, would it still work for a rectangle? How could you pose the question using a triangle, or a cube? These questions can be tough, but that’s the point: we break math, and then we put it together in more powerful configurations. That’s my New Year’s resolution: break as much mathematics as possible this year. As always — use Gary Hewitt’s Enhancer to increase your breaking ability. And send your favorite puzzle to gary.antonick@NYTimes.com. Solution This week’s solution will be provided by Daniel Finkel. Check reader comments on Friday for Dr. Finkel’s solution and commentary on the week’s discussion. Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… David Poole has something up his sleeve.Read more… Jacob Stulberg is all wet. Don’t tell him I said that.Read more… The return of John Westwig.Read more… Are you as smart as a fifth-grader? See if you can solve these algebra challenges without using algebra.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   In Our Pages: January 7. Advertisement   PARIS — Varied are the uses of the telephone, and strange, occasionally, are the misuses to which the apparatus is put. In a case just heard before a Paris Correctional Court, it has even been used as a means for attempting blackmail. It is so easy to call up a number and tell a person that unless certain funds are forthcoming certain disagreeable things will happen. There are no witnesses — unless the person to be blackmailed keeps a bailiff on hand. This is what the plaintiff in the action just heard did. When the threats were repeated the bailiff duly and legally noted them and recognized the voice.  The would-be blackmailer was sentenced to three months’ imprisonment. 1964: ‘Life’ Style on the President WASHINGTON — The United States is using the most advanced techniques of the slick magazine media to help introduce President Johnson to the world. In a few weeks the U.S. Information Agency hopes to have a 64-page ‘‘Life’’ magazine-style publication in the hands of people in 105 nations and in 40 languages. The publication, titled ‘‘The President of the United States of America,’’ is the most ambitious production of its kind since the USIA put out a smaller magazine when the Communists erected the Berlin wall.  This blog will share highlights and curiosities from The International Herald Tribune's storied reportage. While we will share coverage of historic events — the world wars, the women's suffrage movement, the great expeditions — we will also republish glimpses of less earth-shaking moments and the ephemera of daily life. The same stories that caught the eyes of our generations of editors now offer us insight into the lives and interests of generations of Trib readers. Read more » From the International Herald Tribune archives: Prince Victor Napoleon gives a treatise on French politics in 1891.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: British troops attack Irak forces in 1941.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: America awaits Germany’s reply to the president’s note on the Lusitania sinking in 1916.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: Part of Slovenia was formally annexed to Italy in 1941.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: Augustine Birrell resigned as Chief Secretary for Ireland in 1916.Read more… Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Science   Mapping the Highways of the Brain. Deanna Barch and her colleagues are trying to map connections in the human brain. The study is part of the Human Connectome Project.          
Sports   Padres Broadcaster Coleman Dies. Advertisement Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSJAN. 6, 2014 Jerry Coleman, a longtime broadcaster for the San Diego Padres and a Yankees infielder who played on four World Series championship teams, died after a brief illness, the Padres said. He was 89. Coleman spent more than 40 years as a Padres broadcaster, receiving the Ford C. Frick Award from the Baseball Hall of Fame in 2005. His playing career was interrupted by World War II and the Korean War, when he served as a Marine Corps pilot. A version of this brief appears in print on January 6, 2014, on page D6 of the New York edition with the headline: Padres Broadcaster Coleman Dies. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
U.S.   A New Mayor for Boston. Martin J. Walsh was sworn in as the city’s new mayor; he replaces Thomas M. Menino, who was in office for 20 years.          
Business   Oscar, a New Health Insurer, Raises $30 Million. Advertisement Most of the darlings of the last few years have been consumer-focused start-ups, like Instagram and Warby Parker. But a group of investors, including the venture capitalist Joshua Kushner, are doubling down on a bet on health insurance. Oscar, a health insurer co-founded by Mr. Kushner, has raised $30 million in new capital from existing investors, the firm plans to disclose this week. The financing was led by the Founders Fund, the venture capital firm co-founded by Peter Thiel. It also includes Mr. Kushner’s firm, Thrive Capital, Khosla Ventures and General Catalyst Partners. Open for business since October, the company has grown rapidly. The newest fund-raising round, which comes after an initial round of about $35 million, values the insurer at roughly $340 million. Mr. Kushner will remain chairman, while his co-founders, Kevin Nazemi and Mario Schlosser, will run the firm day to day. It’s an unusual bet that technology can transform one of the stodgiest industries around: health insurance. While Oscar’s fundamental business model doesn’t upend the traditional insurance industry playbook, the three are betting that a service provider can thrive on being friendlier and easier to use. “Our ethos and mission is to create a good consumer experience,” Mr. Kushner said in an interview. “We wanted to create an experience like having a doctor in the family.” For now, Oscar only serves New York City and a few other counties in lower New York State. But Mr. Kushner said that the firm was aiming to eventually expand across the country, a process made easier by already being licensed in one state. Oscar still charges deductibles and monthly payments. But the company focuses on offering other services intended to make life easier for patients, including free generic drugs, free calls to doctors and a handful of free primary care appointments. The start-up also focuses on design and technology, including an online search function that lets patients type in their symptoms in natural language, then being steered to a doctor that suits their needs. To Mr. Kushner, such services are meant to undercut the idea of insurance companies as faceless middlemen. “People just don’t have a relationship with this kind of entity,” he said. “The existing players don’t care about satisfying the customer.” The company’s services are currently available only through New York State’s health insurance exchange, though Mr. Kushner said that the technical troubles of healthcare.gov haven’t hurt business. It’s unclear whether a shinier, friendlier insurer can translate into profit, though Mr. Kushner said Oscar already had thousands of customers and tens of millions of dollars in revenue. While the company has already raised more than $75 million in its short existence, people briefed on the matter said that it wasn’t because of a high cash burn. (About $29 million of the insurance provider’s initial fund-raising was set aside for reserves; meanwhile, employees are trying to save money by taking steps like painting the walls of the company’s headquarters themselves.) Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   As Donations Pour In, Aam Aadmi Party Tries to Transform Campaign Finance. Advertisement MUMBAI — The Aam Aadmi Party, having shaken up the political order in India by its surprisingly strong showing in the Delhi state assembly elections last month, is also making an attempt to change the way the country’s political campaigns are financed. When the party first began campaigning in 2012, it promised complete transparency in its finances, creating a website in which the name of the donor is listed, along with the donor’s country of residence, the date and the amount of the donation. These efforts mark a considerable departure from the murky practices considered the norm in electoral finance in India. “It’s the first time there has been this level of transparency in fund-raising by a political party in India,” said E. Sridharan, academic director at the University of Pennsylvania Institute for the Advanced Study of India in New Delhi, who has written extensively about electoral finance. The party says that its financial transparency is intended to differentiate Aam Aadmi from the other political parties, which often accept large donations from private enterprises and individual donors. These donors often expect a payback in the form of public sector licenses and favorable regulations. “It was a very conscious decision on the part of the party that we are not going to resort to the usual funding techniques used by political parties, nor are we going to depend on corporates,” said Ankit Lal, social media and IT administrator for the Aam Aadmi Party. While Indian law only requires donations above 20,000 rupees to be made public, the Aam Aadmi Party lists the names of those who give as little as 100 rupees. Also, political parties need to submit their accounts only annually to the Election Commission, but the Aam Aadmi Party has already published their reports of donations on its website. The party has raised 49.5 million rupees, or $794,000, as of Tuesday since its victory in the Delhi state elections in early December. Before the Delhi state elections, the party received an average of 500,000 rupees a day, but currently it is drawing 1.5 million to 2 million rupees a day. For the Delhi elections, over 70,000 individuals donated, of which 55,000 gave 10,000 rupees or less, said Mr. Lal. Nearly 60 percent of the total amount was donated online, where the party has spent much of its fund-raising efforts. Parties can receive an unlimited amount of donations, but for the state elections in December, the party stopped accepting donations on Nov. 17, after it reached its fund-raising goal of 200 million rupees. “We set a campaign cap because we didn’t want to take more money than we needed,” said Mr. Lal. Though the 1-year-old party has found success in fund-raising, the amounts it has received are still small compared what the more established parties have raised in the past. A study by the Association for Democratic Reforms showed that in the 2011-12 financial year, which begins in April, the Congress Party had a total reported income of 3.07 billion rupees and the Bharatiya Janata Party, or B.J.P., had 1.7 billion rupees. However, the Aam Aadmi Party is willing to reject money if the source doesn’t meet its standards for transparency and honesty. It has turned down donations from certain companies that it deemed as having a less-than-clean track record or from donors whose nationality could not be established. Indians living abroad, also known as nonresident Indians, are allowed to donate to political campaigns in India, but foreign nationals are not. According to the Aam Aadmi Party website, the United States has the highest number of nonresident Indian donors as of Tuesday, followed by the United Arab Emirates, Britain, Singapore and Canada. While the average Indian resident donates about 500 rupees, overseas Indians gives an average of 2,000 rupees to the campaign, said Mr. Lal. When India’s Home Ministry ordered an inquiry into allegations of foreign donations to the party in November, the party welcomed the investigation and called on the government to look into each party’s sources of funding. (The inquiry is still pending.) “Political parties have always received money from outside the country,” said Mr. Sridharan. “Some of this money is also being sent out and then being brought back in a round trip through Mauritius. There is money, which is corrupt money, that is taken out of the country to Swiss banks, Mauritius or the Cayman Islands, and being brought back during elections.” In an attempt to encourage traceable contributions, political parties receive tax breaks on the condition that they file audited financial statements. However, several loopholes exist in the current political finance laws. While India bans anonymous donations to political parties, unlimited anonymous donations to individual candidates are allowed. Also, because political parties only have to report donations above 20,000 rupees to the Election Commission, many have claimed that they have received multiple donations of less than 20,000 rupees from the same donor. Campaign donations are widely seen as a channel for illegal money, also known as black money, to be brought into the country. In a study published in September by the nonprofit Association for Democratic Reforms, nearly 75 percent of the funding of Indian political parties comes from unknown sources. “Political funding everywhere in the world is fraught with controversy,” said Jagdeep Chhokar, one of the founders of the Association for Democratic Reforms. “The laws in India are rather dispersed, and therefore it is easy for political parties to avoid giving information about their sources of funding and their expenditure.” In August, the Election Commission proposed making it mandatory for all political parties to issue receipts to each donor, irrespective of the amount donated, and maintain an account of all the receipts that will be audited each year. The commission also suggested that parties deposit all donations in designated bank accounts to keep a check on the use of illegal money. The suggestions have been resisted by most political parties. The Congress Party, which leads the governing coalition in New Delhi, sent a letter to the Election Commission saying that it would prefer to maintain the status quo. Officials from the B.J.P. and the Congress Party did not respond to requests for comment. Samya Chatterjee, a junior fellow specializing in political funding at the Centre for Governance and Politics in Delhi, said it was too early to say whether the Aam Aadmi Party’s actions represent a turning point for campaign finance in India. “But it has already set a higher threshold for transparency in political funding than currently practiced by political parties,” he said. However, other experts in electoral and political funding are skeptical that the Aam Aadmi Party’s practices will lead to a greater transparency in Indian campaign finance. “Political parties cannot afford to start identifying their donors because a lot of this money is kickbacks for government contracts,” said Mr. Sridharan. “The lack of transparency in party funding is directly related to the discretionary and nontransparent nature of government and public enterprise contracting and regulations — which is where corruption happens. Right now, there is a sort of vicious circle that is difficult to break.” One possible solution that has been widely debated is the public funding of campaigns. Currently, the government provides parties accommodation at subsidized rates, income tax exemptions and free air time on state radio and television. “Research shows that one instrument to enhance transparency is direct state funding to parties,” said Sam van der Staak, program manager at the International Institute of Democracy and Electoral Assistance in Stockholm, adding that public funding to parties is now the global norm, with 70 percent of the world’s countries providing it. Additionally, state funding allows the government to insist upon accountability in expenditure and withhold funds in case of noncompliance, he said. “Since political parties will always need money to perform their democratic roles in society, this forces parties to rely on private donations only, many of which come with strings attached,” he said. Mr. Chhokar of the Association for Democratic Reforms said that although public funding has been debated for a long time, it is not likely to be introduced anytime soon. “The bottleneck is that there is no clarity about how much funding is needed because political parties are not willing to share clear expenditure reports,” he said. “Unless it is known how much money is needed, how will they know much public funding to provide.” Regardless of what happens in campaign finance, the Aam Aadmi Party has signaled that it will do things its way. “We wanted to send the message that we are not like normal parties,” Mr. Lal said. India’s national elections began April 7 and will continue on nine separate dates until May 12, with results expected to be announced on May 16. The vote is the world’s largest, with 814 million eligible voters set to choose 543 members of the lower house of Parliament. The other two seats will be appointed by the president. This election is widely considered to be India’s most consequential since 1977. India Ink will be moving to the World page of The New York Times. Read more… A memorial ceremony at the Imphal War Cemetery in Manipur to honor the soldiers who died during World War II.Read more… The newly elected prime minister reaches out to the public in a blog post about his first 30 days in office.Read more… Newborns whose mothers are unable to breastfeed are given stored breast milk to protect them from potentially life-threatening infection.Read more… In the final stage of a long decline, Hindustan Motors announced in May that it would suspend production of the Ambassador, a car that was once synonymous with style and status.Read more… This report on India from the journalists of The New York Times and a pool of talented writers in India and beyond provides unbiased, authoritative reporting on the country and its place in the world. India Ink also strives to be a virtual meeting point for discussion of this complex, fast-changing democracy – its politics, economy, culture and everyday life. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Science   The Brain, in Exquisite Detail. Advertisement Advertisement The Map Makers By JAMES GORMAN JAN. 6, 2014 Deanna Barch and her colleagues are trying to map connections in the human brain. The study is part of the Human Connectome Project. ST. LOUIS — Deanna Barch talks fast, as if she doesn’t want to waste any time getting to the task at hand, which is substantial. She is one of the researchers here at Washington University working on the first interactive wiring diagram of the living, working human brain. To build this diagram she and her colleagues are doing brain scans and cognitive, psychological, physical and genetic assessments of 1,200 volunteers. They are more than a third of the way through collecting information. Then comes the processing of data, incorporating it into a three-dimensional, interactive map of the healthy human brain showing structure and function, with detail to one and a half cubic millimeters, or less than 0.0001 cubic inches. Dr. Barch is explaining the dimensions of the task, and the reasons for undertaking it, as she stands in a small room, where multiple monitors are set in front of a window that looks onto an adjoining room with an M.R.I. machine, in the psychology building. She asks a research assistant to bring up an image. “It’s all there,” she says, reassuring a reporter who has just emerged from the machine, and whose brain is on display. And so it is, as far as the parts are concerned: cortex, amygdala, hippocampus and all the other regions and subregions, where memories, fear, speech and calculation occur. But this is just a first go-round. It is a static image, in black and white. There are hours of scans and tests yet to do, though the reporter is doing only a demonstration and not completing the full routine. Each of the 1,200 subjects whose brain data will form the final database will spend a good 10 hours over two days being scanned and doing other tests. The scientists and technicians will then spend at least another 10 hours analyzing and storing each person’s data to build something that neuroscience does not yet have: a baseline database for structure and activity in a healthy brain that can be cross-referenced with personality traits, cognitive skills and genetics. And it will be online, in an interactive map available to all. Advertisement Dr. Helen Mayberg, a doctor and researcher at the Emory University School of Medicine, who has used M.R.I. research to guide her development of a treatment for depression with deep brain stimulation, a technique that involves surgery to implant a pacemaker-like device in the brain, is one of the many scientists who could use this sort of database to guide her research. With it, she said, she can ask, “how is this really critical node connected” to other parts of the brain, information that will inform future research and surgery. The database and brain map are a part of the Human Connectome Project, a roughly $40 million five-year effort supported by the National Institutes of Health. It consists of two consortiums: a collaboration among researchers at Harvard, Massachusetts General Hospital and the Laboratory of Neuro Imaging, which moved last year to the University of Southern California from U.C.L.A., to improve M.R.I. technology and the $30 million project Dr. Barch is part of, involving Washington University, the University of Minnesota and the University of Oxford. Dr. Barch is a psychologist by training and inclination who has concentrated on neuroscience because of the desire to understand severe mental illness. Her role in the project has been in putting together the battery of cognitive and psychological tests that go along with the scans, and overseeing their administration. This is the information that will give depth and significance to the images. JAN. 8, 2014 She said the central question the data might help answer was, “How do differences between you and me, and how our brains are wired up, relate to differences in our behaviors, our thoughts, our emotions, our feelings, our experiences?” And, she added, “Does that help us understand how disorders of connectivity, or disorders of wiring, contribute to or cause neurological problems and psychiatric problems?” The Human Connectome Project is one of a growing number of large, collaborative information-gathering efforts that signal a new level of excitement in neuroscience, as rapid technological advances seem to be bringing the dream of figuring out the human brain into the realm of reality. Worldwide Study In Europe, the Human Brain Project has been promised $1 billion for computer modeling of the human brain. In the United States last year, President Obama announced an initiative to push brain research forward by concentrating first on developing new technologies. This so-called Grand Challenge has been promised $100 million of financing for the first year of what is anticipated to be a decade-long push. The money appears to be real, but it may come from existing budgets, and not from any increase for the federal agencies involved. A vast amount of research is already going on — so much that the neuroscience landscape is almost as difficult to encompass as the brain itself. The National Institutes of Health alone spends $5.5 billion a year on neuroscience, much of it directed toward research on diseases like Parkinson’s and Alzheimer’s. Advertisement A variety of private institutes emphasize basic research that may not have any immediate payoff. For instance, at the Allen Institute for Brain Science in Seattle, Janelia Farm in Virginia, part of the Howard Hughes Medical Institute, and at numerous universities, researchers are trying to understand how neurons compute — what the brains of mice, flies and human beings do with their information. The Allen Institute is now spending $60 million a year and Janelia Farm about $30 million a year on brain research. The Kavli Foundation has committed $4 million a year for 10 years, and the Salk Institute in San Diego plans to spend a total of $28 million on new neuroscience research. And there are others in the U.S. and abroad. To be sure, this is not the first time such a focus has been placed on brain research. The 1990s were anointed the decade of the brain by President George H. W. Bush. Strides were made, but many aspects of the brain have remained mysterious. There is, however, a good reason for the current excitement, and that is accelerating technological change that the most sanguine of brain mappers compare to the growing ability to sequence DNA that led to the Human Genome Project. Optogenetics is one new technique that has been transformative. It uses light to turn on different parts of the brain in laboratory animals to open and shut modified genes. Powerful developments in microscopy made possible movies of brain activity in living animals. A modified rabies virus can target one brain cell and mark every other cell that is connected to it. “There is an explosion of new techniques,” said Dr. R. Clay Reid, a senior investigator at the Allen Institute, who recently moved there from Harvard Medical School. “And the end isn’t really in sight,” said Dr. Reid, who is taking advantage of just about every new technology imaginable in his quest to decipher the part of the mouse brain devoted to vision. Advertisement Charting the Brain Of the many metaphors used for exploring and understanding the brain, mapping is probably the most durable, perhaps because maps are so familiar and understandable. “A century ago, brain maps were like 16th-century maps of the Earth’s surface,” said David Van Essen, who is in charge of the Connectome effort at Washington University, where Dr. Barch works. Much was unknown or mislabeled. “Now our characterizations are more like an 18th-century map.” The continents, mountain ranges and rivers are getting more clearly defined. His hope, he said, is that the Human Connectome Project will be a step toward vaulting through the 19th and 20th centuries and reaching something more like Google Maps, which is interactive and has many layers. Researchers may not be looking for the best sushi restaurants or how to get from one side of Los Angeles to the other while avoiding traffic, but they will eventually be looking for traffic flow, particularly popular routes for information, and matching traffic patterns to the tasks the brain is doing. They will also be asking how differences in the construction of the pathways that make up the brain’s roads relate to differences in behavior, intelligence, emotion and genetics. Advertisement The power of computers and mathematical tools devised for analyzing vast amounts of data made such maps possible. The gathering tool of choice at Washington University is an M.R.I. machine customized at the University of Minnesota. An M.R.I. machine creates a magnetic field surrounding the body part to be scanned, and sends radio waves into the body. Unlike X-rays, which are known to pose some dangers, M.R.I. scans are considered to be safe. It is one of the few methods of noninvasive scanning that can survey a whole human brain. There are a variety of ways to gather and interpret information in an M.R.I. machine. And different types of scans can show both basic structure and activity. When a volunteer is trying to solve a memory problem, the hippocampus, the amygdala and the prefrontal cortex are all going to be involved. An M.R.I. machine can detect the direction of information flow, in a technique called diffusion imaging. In that kind of scan, the movement of water molecules shows not only activity, but which way the traffic is headed. A Path to Research For Dr. Barch, 48, another kind of interest in the human brain put her on the path to Washington University. “I always knew I wanted to be a psychologist,” she said — specifically, a school psychologist. But as an undergraduate at Northwestern, she excelled in an abnormal psychology class, and the professor recruited her to do research. “When I graduated from college, I decided to become a case manager for the chronically mentally ill for a year to kind of suss out, ‘Do I want to do more clinical work or research?’ ” she said. “That was a great experience, but it really made me realize that research is the only way you’re going to have an impact on many lives, rather than sort of individual lives.” She obtained her Ph.D. in clinical psychology at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. but then did postdoctoral study in cognitive neuroscience at the University of Pittsburgh and Carnegie Mellon University. Her years in graduate school in the 1990s coincided with the development and use of the so-called functional M.R.I., which can show not just static structure, but the brain in action. “I got into the field when functional imaging was just at its very beginning, so I was able to learn on the ground floor,” she said. She moved to Washington University after her postdoctoral research partly because of the number of people there working on imaging, including Dr. Marcus E. Raichle, a pioneer in developing ways of watching the brain at work. Advertisement As a professor at Washington University and a leader of one of five teams there working on the Human Connectome Project, Dr. Barch focuses her research on the way individual differences in the brains of healthy people are related to differences in personality or thinking. For instance she said, people doing memory tasks in the M.R.I. machine may differ in competitiveness and commitment to doing well. That ought to show up in activity in the parts of the brain that involve emotion, like the amygdala. However, she points out that the object of the Connectome Project is not to find the answers to these questions, but to provide the database for others to try to do so. ‘Pretty Close’ The project at Washington University requires exhaustive scans of 1,200 healthy people, age 22 to 35, each of whom spends about four hours over two days lying in the noisy, claustrophobia-inducing cylinder of a customized M.R.I. machine. Sometimes they stare at one spot, curl their toes or move their fingers. They might play gambling games, or try memory tests that can flummox even the sharpest minds. “In an ideal world, we would have enough tasks to activate every part of the brain,” she said. “We got pretty close. We’re not perfect, but pretty close.” Over the two days, the research subjects spend another six hours taking other tests designed to measure intelligence, basic physical fitness, tasting ability and their emotional state. The volunteers (and they are all volunteers, paid a flat $400 for their time and effort) can also be seen in street clothes, doing a kind of race around two traffic cones in the sunlit corridor of the glass-walled psychology building, with data collected on how quickly they complete the course. Or they can be glimpsed padding down a hallway in their stocking feet from the M.R.I. machine to an office where a technician dabs their tongues with a swab dipped in a mystery liquid, then asks them to identify the intensity and quality of the taste. In the same office, they type in answers to cognitive tests, and to a psychological survey, for which they are left in solitude because of the personal nature of some of the questions: how they feel about life, how often they are sad. The results are confidential, as are all the test results. Advertisement So far almost 500 subjects have gone through the full range of tests, which amounts to about 5,000 hours of work for Dr. Barch and others in the program. So far, data has been released for 238 subjects, and it is available to everyone for free through a web-based database and software program called Workbench. The sharing of data is characteristic of most of the new brain research efforts, and particularly important to Dr. Barch. “The amount of time and energy we’re spending collecting this data, there’s no possible way any one research group could ever use it to the extent that justifies the cost,” she said. “But letting everybody use it — great!” The Elusive Brain No one expects the brain to yield its secrets quickly or easily. Neuroscientists are fond of deflecting hope even as they point to potential success. Science may come to understand neurons, brain regions, connections, make progress on Parkinson’s. Alzheimer’s or depression, and even decipher the code or codes the brain uses to send and store information. But, as any neuroscientist sooner or later cautions in discussing the prospects for breakthroughs, we are not going to “solve the brain” anytime soon — not going to explain consciousness, the self, the precise mechanisms that produce a poem. Perhaps the greatest challenge is that the brain functions and can be viewed at so many levels, from a detail of a synapse to brain regions trillions of times larger. There are electrical impulses to study, biochemistry, physical structure, networks at every level and between levels. And there are more than 40,000 scientists worldwide trying to figure it out. This is not a case of an elephant examined by 40,000 blindfolded experts, each of whom comes to a different conclusion about what it is they are touching. Everyone knows the object of study is the brain. The difficulty of comprehending the brain may be more aptly compared to a poem by Wallace Stevens, “13 Ways of Looking at a Blackbird.” Each way of looking, not looking, or just being in the presence of the blackbird reveals something about it, but only something. Each way of looking at the brain reveals ever more astonishing secrets, but the full and complete picture of the human brain is still out of reach. There is no need, no intention and perhaps no chance, of ever “solving” a poet’s blackbird. It is hard to imagine a poet wanting such a thing. But science, by its nature, pursues synthesis, diagrams, maps — a grip on the mechanism of the thing. We may not solve the brain any time soon, but someday achieving such a solution, at least in scientific terms, is the fervent hope of neuroscience. An article on Tuesday about efforts to map the human brain gave outdated information about one of the consortiums that is part of the Human Connectome Project. While the Laboratory of Neuro Imaging used to be based at U.C.L.A., it moved to the University of Southern California last year. Next: Functional connections at a different level. Dr. R. Clay Reid investigates the mouse visual cortex. A version of this article appears in print on January 7, 2014, on page D1 of the New York edition with the headline: The Brain, in Exquisite Detail. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Sports   Wild Lose Captain Koivu to Injury. Advertisement Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSJAN. 7, 2014 The Minnesota Wild will be without their captain, Mikko Koivu, for the next month. Koivu, a first-line center and the team’s leading scorer with 35 points in 44 games, had surgery to repair a broken ankle. He was hit by a puck Saturday against Washington. Go to Home Page »
Technology   Franky Cam. Franky, an easygoing 17-year-old tortoise, sauntered down an aisle of Lou's Pet Shop in Grosse Pointe, Mich., while broadcasting his movements online via Dropcam.          
U.S.   L.A. Sheriff to Retire. In an emotional statement, the embattled Los Angeles County sheriff, Lee Baca, said that he would not seek re-election to a fifth term and that he planned to retire at the end of the month.          
Arts   Plans for the Museum of Modern Art. Advertisement Advertisement According to plans released Wednesday, much of the ground floor of the Museum of Modern Art would become open to the public. The museum expects the project to be completed in 2018 or 2019. JAN. 8, 2014 Related Article Three floors of existing gallery space will be extended here Current entrance Garden entrance SCULPTURE GARDEN OPEN TO THE PUBLIC manhattan NOUVEL TOWER SITE MoMA CAMPUS FORMER AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM MoMA STORE New Art Bay with exhibition and performance space above Film entrance Current entrance Ticket scanning will occur at multiple points  Source: Diller Scofidio & Renfro
Business   Automotive Highlights From C.E.S.. Advertisement Advertisement By BENJAMIN PRESTONJAN. 8, 2014 ■ Kia’s KND-7 concept, which looks like the CUB concept the company unveiled at the Seoul auto show, made an appearance at the Consumer Electronic Show this week. The KND-7 features suicide rear doors, a 4-seat cabin, something along the bottom of the front doors called turning vanes and a 201-horsepower turbocharged gasoline engine. (Kia) ■ Lucas di Grassi, the Brazilian Formula One driver, put on a show for journalists covering the show on Monday, driving the all-electric Spark-Renault Formula E car, the SRT_01E, in its first dynamic public demonstration. Di Grassi performed a series of (not-so-smoky) doughnuts and skidding stops. (Renault) ■ BMW said it would also introduce new technology in Las Vegas this week, including an automated car that integrates electronically controlled steering with automated brakes for greater control, as well as a camera-based adaptive cruise control that eliminates the need for more costly radar-based systems. As Hyundai integrated its products with Google Glass for the show, BMW says it will blend the Samsung Galaxy Gear with its systems. (BMW) ■ Audi announced Tuesday that it would introduce a TT with a sleek new interior featuring an all-digital instrument cluster that the automaker said eliminated the need for a multimedia interface display in the center of the dash. Audi says the instrument panel will look like an airplane wing and the climate control vents like jet nozzles, giving the cabin an aerospace feel. (Audi) ■ Audi also displayed a commuter-themed exhibit at the show, a look at the needs of big-city commuters called the Audi Urban Future Initiative. Audi showcased technologies such as smartphone-assisted car-to-public transit transitions and cars that park themselves, and questioned what could be done to improve interfaces among car, public transit and pedestrian commuters. (Audi) Advertisement ■ Assuming a practice usually reserved for software companies, Ford announced in Las Vegas on Tuesday that it would hold a developers conference in Dearborn, Mich., this June. The automaker said it would invite companies to create apps for its Sync AppLink system. The company also introduced a partnership with Dominos Pizza that would allow Ford customers to order pizza using voice commands. (Ford) ■ Toyota says that its hydrogen fuel-cell Car of the Future will be reasonably priced, have a 300-mile range and a three- to five-minute fill-up time. Although the car was camouflaged, it was shown with the Toyota FCV concept at the show. Toyota offered few other details, but said the car would be available for sale next year. (Toyota) Car of the Future Go to Home Page »
Food   Tosca Cafe. Tosca Cafe in San Francisco, in the shadow of the Transamerica Pyramid. Ken Friedman and April Bloomfield converted this landmark dive bar into an Italian restaurant last year. CreditPeter DaSilva for The New York Times 1 of 10 A second run for a Guyanese corner restaurant in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn.
Foreign   Colonial Ghosts Continue to Haunt France. Advertisement Advertisement By ADAM NOSSITERJAN. 10, 2014 DAKAR, Senegal — In the paternalist universe of France and a dozen-odd former African colonies, its stifling embrace of the Central African Republic is unique, a century-old hug both protective and deadly. That special relationship is playing out now as France finds itself stuck in a quagmire decades in the making — and one in which France, indirectly at least, has had a hand. The weight of a brutal colonial past and its meddling post-colonial sequel underpin Operation Sangaris, a peacekeeping mission other European countries, and the United States, are so far happy to leave to the French. And perhaps for good reason. For the moment, the 1,600 French troops in the country have kept Muslim and Christian factions uneasily at bay and reduced violence that has killed an estimated 1,000 people and driven more than 900,000 from their homes; as many as 100,000 are camped out at the airport in the capital, Bangui, seeking the protection of French and other troops. The feared genocide — a warning term used by French officials in Paris and at the United Nations last fall — has so far not materialized. But genocide, real or imagined, always had less to do with the reality of a French intervention than with seeking short-term support for it. The underlying reasons have more to do with a long-term bond that has seen French troops deployed in the Central African Republic seven times in just over 30 years, including on three occasions in 1996 — to the point that some French commentators have termed the latest one merely inevitable. This time, for eight months France looked on uneasily as bodies piled up and local hostility toward the Muslim rebel rulers from the north grew. Advertisement Finally, with the large-scale killings of Dec. 5 in Bangui — perhaps precipitated, with some irony, by a scheduled United Nations vote on intervention that day, as local commentators suggested — it could wait no longer. France cannot escape the Central African Republic, and vice versa. More than 15 years ago, a former prime minister, Jean-Paul Ngoupandé, wrote in a despairing memoir that France “needs to question itself, candidly, on its role in the infantilizing of this country.” But long before France’s troops got into the business of making and unmaking rulers, the lands north of the Ubangi River had entered the French conscience. What became the Central African Republic — it was then in French Equatorial Africa — played a central role in forcing the French to recognize the ugly realities of colonial rule across France’s then-vast overseas empire. The devastating travel account of the novelist and essayist André Gide, who traveled through the colony of Oubangui-Chari in 1926-27 and later was awarded a Nobel Prize, caused a scandal when it was first published as “Voyage au Congo,” and it “shocked French opinion in an era when everything was done to hide from the public the negative aspects of the colonial regime,” one of the last French administrators of Oubangui-Chari, Pierre Kalck, wrote years later. Gide had come in search of butterflies and exotic flora and fauna; he stumbled on horrifying accounts of brutality, practiced by French colonial agents, under the thumb of French state-chartered companies exploiting rubber and other resources. Not far from Bangui, inhabitants told the writer of exemplary “punishments” inflicted for not obeying orders or failing to bring in the rubber quotient: men tied to trees and shot, women massacred with machetes, children shut up in a hut and burned alive, men forced to carry huge beams while walking in a circle for hours in broiling heat until they dropped. “Alas, this ‘ballroom scene’ was not, I fear, exceptional in the least,” Gide wrote. “Sleep is impossible for me,” he continued. “An enormous groan now possesses me; Now I know things I feel powerless to do anything about. What demon drove me to Africa?” he wrote. “For now, I know; and I must speak out.” In systematic and until then largely unacknowledged state-sanctioned violence, France had tied itself, for ill and good, to the country’s future. It is a troubled and unequal partnership that is still working itself out. A version of this article appears in print on January 8, 2014, in The International New York Times. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Health   The Workout. Get motivated and discover the fitness secrets and workout routines of Olympians, professional athletes and Broadway dancers.         Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics Obama, Dancing with the Star (Wars) Cuban Ballet School in Motion Best of Obama's Correspondents' Dinner Speech This Week’s Movies: May 6, 2016 Welfare and the Politics of Poverty Fort McMurray Wildfire Under Investigation Canada Wildfire Prompts Mass Evacuations Why It’s Hard to Keep the Pounds Off Cruz Responds to Trump’s Paternal Dig
Movies   Anatomy of a Scene. Film directors walk viewers through one scene of their movies, showing the magic, motives and the mistakes from behind the camera.          Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics Obama, Dancing with the Star (Wars) Cuban Ballet School in Motion Best of Obama's Correspondents' Dinner Speech This Week’s Movies: May 6, 2016 Welfare and the Politics of Poverty Fort McMurray Wildfire Under Investigation Canada Wildfire Prompts Mass Evacuations Why It’s Hard to Keep the Pounds Off Cruz Responds to Trump’s Paternal Dig
Science   ScienceTake. See how monkeys teach manners, elephants show empathy and ants imitate water in ScienceTake, combining cutting-edge research from the world of science with stunning footage of the natural world in action.          Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics Obama, Dancing with the Star (Wars) Cuban Ballet School in Motion Best of Obama's Correspondents' Dinner Speech This Week’s Movies: May 6, 2016 Welfare and the Politics of Poverty Fort McMurray Wildfire Under Investigation Canada Wildfire Prompts Mass Evacuations Why It’s Hard to Keep the Pounds Off Cruz Responds to Trump’s Paternal Dig
Sports   Redefining What’s Possible for Skiers. For some professional skiers, helicopter pilots have emerged as essential partners. One such pilot, Tighe Daugherty, has come to specialize in helping skiers reach new terrain in Alaska.          
Technology   Wrist Revolution. The Times’s Nick Bilton takes a look at smartwatches at the International CES in Las Vegas.          
U.S.   ‘Sister Wives’ Clip — Graduation. In an upcoming episode of the TLC show, “Sister Wives,” the family is focused on planning a graduation party.          
Business   Review: Wearable Filip Phone/Tracker. Advertisement Advertisement By ROY FURCHGOTTJAN. 9, 2014 Tracking devices make me uneasy, but I have to defer to parental paranoia, which requires knowing where your children are. A watch/tracker/phone, Filip, may help. I find Filip less odious that most tracking devices. This may be partly because of the bright colors and appealingly goofy oversize design. Available in red, hot pink, bright green and blue, it has a chunky charm. To use the phone, you install the free Filip app on a parent’s Android or iOS device. Then you link to the Filip itself. You can follow the locations of up to five of the Filip devices. You can also set a “safe zone,” which is the distance a Filip can travel before your phone receives an alert. The Times’s Nick Bilton takes a look at smartwatches at the International CES in Las Vegas. You can store multiple zones for each child (your house, a friend’s across town, Grandma’s in another state). The zones are circular, which could be a problem for some; for example, I might allow a child to venture four blocks north, east and west from my house, but four blocks south would put him in the Baltimore Harbor. Parents can use the phone app to send a text message to Filip’s watch face (Call me now!), or place a call to the Filip, which has a speaker phone built in (so be careful what you say). Advertisement The Filip can store five contact numbers. The red call button also acts as an emergency button; when held for three seconds, it starts by calling the person you have as the main contact. If that person doesn’t answer, it will call each contact sequentially until someone picks up. But it can’t be programmed to call 911 as one of the numbers. Dispatches from the International CES in Las Vegas. So far it’s a lot like a phone tracking app, but there is one advantage: You don’t have to worry about your children using Filip to browse the web, because it can’t. Similarly, no texting. There are certainly a few drawbacks to Filip. One is that the batteries run down pretty quickly, so be sure to get it on a charger overnight. Good luck if your child is on a sleepover. I also wonder about the slip-on open bracelet design. Wouldn’t a strap be more secure? Finally, there is the cost. At $200, there are good phones that are less expensive. In addition to the price of the device, there is a $36 activation fee and a $10 monthly fee. Filip may quell some parental worries, even if it’s not the perfect electronic nanny, but I suppose that’s why it’s called Filip, not Mary Poppins. Go to Home Page »
Foreign   Senator Signals Support for Sending Helicopters to Iraq. Advertisement Advertisement By PETER BAKER and ERIC SCHMITTJAN. 8, 2014 WASHINGTON — A powerful Senate Democrat signaled Wednesday that he might allow the transfer of AH-64 Apache helicopters to Iraq as the government in Baghdad struggles to recapture key territory seized by Islamic extremists in the western part of the country. The senator, Bob Menendez of New Jersey, the chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, has blocked the lease and sale of the powerful attack helicopters for months while seeking assurances that Iraq would not use them to attack civilians and that the government in Baghdad would take steps to stop Iran from using Iraqi airspace to ship arms to Syria’s military. Mr. Menendez received a three-page letter last week from Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki of Iraq responding to his concerns and received an urgent call from the State Department on Tuesday promising a further response. Although committee officials said the answers so far do not go much further than Mr. Maliki or the administration have in the past, Mr. Menendez was convinced that they are serious about dealing with the concerns given the latest strife in Anbar Province. “The administration is now addressing concerns first raised in July that required responses before this sale could proceed,” said Adam Sharon, the senator’s spokesman. “Provided these issues are sufficiently addressed, Chairman Menendez will be ready to move forward.” The Obama administration has proposed selling 20 to 30 of the helicopters to the Iraqi government, but, because it could take years for them to be built, it has also asked to lease up to 10 aircraft in the interim. Administration officials said the Apaches could be useful in targeting fighters affiliated with Al Qaeda like those who have taken over parts of Fallujah and Ramadi in recent days. But even if Mr. Menendez dropped his objections, it could take until April to deliver them, and officials noted that pilots would still need to be trained. Advertisement Moreover, other senators remain concerned. “I think we have to be very careful,” said Senator Saxby Chambliss of Georgia, the ranking Republican on the Intelligence Committee. “All of that could fall into the wrong hands.” The administration is separately planning to provide an additional shipment of Hellfire missiles as early as this spring, seeing them as effective at denying Al Qaeda a haven in Anbar. In addition, the administration plans to send Iraq 10 ScanEagle surveillance drones in coming weeks and 48 Raven surveillance drones later in the year. Those come on top of Aerostat surveillance balloons provided to Iraq in September and three additional Bell IA-407 helicopters sent last month. Still, even some senior Democrats who support reinforcing Iraqi troops said Mr. Maliki ultimately bore the burden for crafting a long-term political solution with Sunnis in restive Anbar Province. “You could tactically go in with enough force to displace Al Qaeda, but the long-term success is based on the politics,” said Senator Jack Reed of Rhode Island, a senior Democrat on the Armed Services Committee. “Maliki has to help himself out.” Go to Home Page »
Home   The Rubber Duckie Has Hit the Road. Advertisement Advertisement By SANDY KEENANJAN. 9, 2014 There’s a bit of a shocker coming out of the inaugural “2014 Winter Bathroom Trends Study” just released by Houzz, the home remodeling and design website. Bathtubs appear to be out of favor. More than 4 in 10 respondents said they were leaving them out of their new master bathrooms; among respondents 55 and older, more than half are going tub-less. “That was the biggest surprise,” said Liza Hausman, Houzz’s vice president for community and marketing. “I would never do that.” Houzz emailed the 37-question survey to all of its registered users. Ninety-three percent of the 7,645 who responded said they were either planning or undergoing a bathroom redo. Among that group, about 25 percent said they were enlarging the original footprint of their bathrooms and 55 percent intended to put in double sinks. For walls, paint trumped tile by 47 to 33 percent, and traditional styling edged out contemporary bathrooms (like the one above) by less than 1 percent. Some preferences correlated with age. “Older homeowners want a hand-held spray; younger ones want a body spray” coming off the wall, Ms. Hausman said. Study results are at houzz.com. A version of this article appears in print on January 9, 2014, on page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: The Rubber Duckie Has Hit the Road. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Movies   This Week’s Movies. The ultimate film lover’s guide: The Times critics A.O. Scott, Manohla Dargis and Stephen Holden offer their picks for the week’s best movies, from blockbusters to hidden gems.          Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics Obama, Dancing with the Star (Wars) Cuban Ballet School in Motion Best of Obama's Correspondents' Dinner Speech This Week’s Movies: May 6, 2016 Welfare and the Politics of Poverty Fort McMurray Wildfire Under Investigation Canada Wildfire Prompts Mass Evacuations Why It’s Hard to Keep the Pounds Off Cruz Responds to Trump’s Paternal Dig
Science   The Workout: Speedskating With Eddy Alvarez Sign Up for the Running Email. Advertisement The workout for Eddy Alvarez, a United States Olympic Team short track speedskater, is designed in part to keep his body balanced even though he relies on his left side when skating.  An inside look at fitness routines, by Anahad O’Connor.  Being a successful short-track speedskater is no easy feat. Members of the United States team follow a grueling schedule that involves up to eight hours of training, six days a week. They lift weights, they run and they cycle. And they practice racing around a rink at 40 miles an hour on two razor-sharp blades. We asked Eddy Alvarez, who will be competing in his first Olympics in Sochi, Russia, in February, to take us through a speedskater’s workout. Nicknamed Eddy the Jet, Mr. Alvarez, 23, started roller-skating as a child while growing up in Miami, then transitioned to ice. He has won national and World Cup medals in speedskating. But his career was nearly derailed two years ago by devastating knee injuries, which required surgery that left him bedridden for a month. His doctor told him he might never skate again. But Mr. Alvarez bounced back, and he is now considered a top prospect heading into the Olympics. Recently, we caught up with him at the Olympic Oval training facility in Salt Lake City to talk about how he trains six to eight hours a day to prepare for a 42-second race, how a “dino disc” helps prevent injuries and why he is superstitious about what he eats before a competition. Here is an edited version of our conversation. How long have you been skating? I’ve been skating since I was 5; I used to speedskate on inline skates when I was little down in South Beach. I was kind of a side-street attraction. I was even sponsored by a skate shop in Miami. I would wear their logo and jump over boxes and skate around on the streets of South Beach. How did you get into speedskating on ice? Ice was introduced to me at the age of 7. I still remember the first time I tried it. I can’t tell you exactly where it was, but I remember the feeling. It was quite a rush for me as a 7-year-old, gliding and going fast. What are some of the physical demands of the sport? The positions that we’re in on the ice are, honestly, excruciating. We basically skate in a squat position, but what we try to do is become a compact ball. If you watch us skate, you’ll that see our backs are curved. When people ask me how it feels, the best way I can describe it is to say go and do a wall-sit for 10 minutes and then stand up. That’s how it feels. What is a typical day like? I’m in two places every day. I’m either at the Oval training, or I’m at my house sleeping. I know it’ll be worth it in the end, but I really hope I don’t miss my fun years. What are some of your greatest achievements in skating so far? It’s been a very long road. But the biggest accomplishment that I’ve had would be coming back from my injury. It was the hardest thing I’ve ever had to face. Can you tell us about your injury comeback? I always had knee issues growing up. We thought it was because I grew very fast, very late. But during the 2009-2010 season, it got to a point where I couldn’t finish workouts. I would come home and cry. But I would tell myself to push through it because it was the Olympic season and I had nothing to lose. So I overdid it. I fell short of the 2010 Games and didn’t make the team, and then I finally went to get my knees checked. I got an ultrasound, and it turned out that I had torn the patella tendons in my knees. I had a total of 12 tears in both knees. The doctor was impressed that I was even able to be in skating condition, because my patella tendons were like strings – dangling strings, basically. Can you tell us about the physical preparation that goes into the sport? We put in a lot of hours. We train six to eight hours a day to go race for 42 seconds. The reason we train this much is so our bodies can recover in between rounds of racing. In competitions, we usually skate six or eight rounds in a day, and it’s usually 15 to 20 minutes of rest and then you’re back at it again. It takes a toll on our bodies. Honestly, I always get sick after a competition. That’s how much I put my body through. Unorthodox is the best word to describe our training and our sport. Does it require some muscles more than others? Our sport is very lower-body dominant. The less weight you carry in your upper body, the easier it is. Unfortunately, I carry a little more than everyone else because I have a baseball background. The muscles in my upper body are a little different than the typical short tracker. It sounds like injuries are a big concern. Injuries are huge for us. We are hitting speeds of roughly 40 miles per hour, and there’s falls and crashes. The training takes a toll on our knees, our backs and our hamstrings. At the stage at which we compete, I don’t think there’s an athlete that’s going to be 100 percent physically, with no injuries. We train our bodies every day, and it’s just something that we have to accept. Are there exercises you do to address these issues? We do extra training on the side to strengthen our weaknesses. I like to do exercises on something that we call a “dino disc.” It’s a little rubber disc that has air in it, and when you step on it, it’s like a balance tool. I work a lot with that to strengthen all the little muscles that we don’t have the opportunity to strengthen and activate while we skate. We also do a lot of rubber-band exercises at the beginning of the season to strengthen the knees and the muscles around them. Then we pray that it holds up throughout the season. What are some of your favorite land exercises? We do a lot of jumping exercises, and we do things to develop our accuracy and our foot speed. We’re trying to simulate what we do on the ice. So you’ll find us doing exercises like “dry skating,” which is basically just straight-away pushes on land to simulate the lactic acid that we build in our legs. And we do something called turn-belt exercises, where they strap a long belt around your waist that looks like a seatbelt, and then you have someone else holding the belt as you’re simulating the lean that we have on the ice. What about cardio? We do a lot of cycling and running. We run or bike for 45 minutes to an hour two to three days a week, and during the summer we do four-hour bike rides twice a week. We ride all the mountains out here in Salt Lake City. What is your approach to diet? I try to cook and eat at home as much as possible so I can control the amount and type of oils I eat. One thing I like to use is coconut oil. I’m also a big fan of juicing vegetables. I absolutely hate eating them. So I stick them in a juicer with some fruit like an apple to sweeten it up and I chug it. Some days, we just have to eat and eat and eat to be able to perform. We don’t want to sell ourselves short by not eating enough. We slice through body fat, and we have to fuel our bodies. You’re not going to find me at McDonald’s or Wendy’s. But I like to eat pasta and bread and carbs. Are there certain foods you like to eat before a race or training? I have a superstition. I don’t like to eat red meat before a competition. When I was little, I was always told that red meat is hard to process and sits in your stomach. So during competitions I only eat chicken. I have this thought that the red meat will just sit in my stomach and make me heavier. So I eat chicken during competitions, and some white rice and pasta. What will it mean to you to compete in Sochi? I dream about standing on that podium, winning a medal. It would be such an accomplishment for me because of everything I had to go through. After my surgery, I went through depression. I wasn’t on the ice for 24 months. It’s been a long road for me, and it would mean a lot for my family. They’ve been there every step of the way. I owe it all to them, and if I succeed, the satisfaction of them being happy is the most important thing in the world to me. Your health questions answered by Times journalists and experts. Your Questions | All » Get Well's Running email for practical tips, expert advice, exclusive content and a bit of motivation delivered to your inbox every week to help you on your running journey. Coming soon. How much do you know about the amazing things that go on in your gut? Take our quiz to find out about the creepy, crawly critters living in your home. What surface is the most friendly to the flu virus? Where’s the best place to stand when you’re talking to a sick person? How does sleep affect health, relationships and well-being? The “Reading the Mind in the Eyes Test” measures ability to understand others’ emotional states. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   Early Olympic Dreams. From unicycles to inline skates, Mikaela Shiffrin spent plenty of time off skis, as when she played in the garage with her brother at age 6.          
Technology   GoPro Gets Tiny. At the International CES in Las Vegas, The Times’s Nick Bilton was impressed by a tiny, versatile camera made by GoPro.          
U.S.   Christie’s Confrontational Style. Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey has been accused of bullying political opponents. On YouTube, there are clips of his confrontations with critics.          
Washington   Two House Democrats Announce Retirement. Advertisement Advertisement By SARAH WHEATONJAN. 8, 2014 WASHINGTON — Two House Democrats, Carolyn McCarthy of New York, and Mike McIntyre of North Carolina, on Wednesday announced plans to retire. While Mrs. McCarthy’s seat is likely to stay in Democratic hands, Mr. McIntyre’s district, which includes Wilmington and other parts of eastern North Carolina, is an almost certain pickup for Republicans. After 18 years in Congress, Mr. McIntyre said in a news release, he is ready for a “new chapter” in his life. Republicans saw evidence of Democrats’ vulnerability over the health care law in Mr. McIntyre’s announcement, which comes on the heels of a decision by Representative Jim Matheson, Democrat of Utah, to retire from the House. Yet Mr. McIntyre and Mr. Matheson both voted against the Affordable Care Act. “This retirement announcement also proves that Obamacare and its negative impact continues to burden Democrats in 2014 — even for Democrats who voted against the law like McIntyre and Matheson,” said Representative Greg Walden, chairman of the Republican Congressional Campaign Committee. “When these two throw in the towel, you have to wonder who is next, especially among those Democrats in similar districts who backed Obamacare and other reckless policies.” Yet so far, only three Democrats have announced they will not seek re-election, compared to nine Republicans. Of those, said Representative Steve Israel, head of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Commettiee, six open up “competitive seats in which Republicans will fight a bitter primary to the right and Democrats will nominate strong, problem-solving candidates.” Advertisement Mrs. McCarthy, one of the most ardent advocates in Congress for gun control, announced her decision on the third anniversary of the shooting that left former Representative Gabrielle Giffords with a severe brain injury and killed six in Tucson. Mrs. McCarthy’s husband, Dennis, was killed in a mass shooting on the Long Island Rail Road in 1993, leading her to become a gun-control activist. Three years later, she ran for public office, switching parties and becoming a Democrat to challenge a Republican who had voted to repeal the federal assault weapons ban. She won, 57 percent to 41 percent. Retirement is “something I’ve been thinking about really for quite a long time,” Mrs. McCarthy said in a telephone interview. She announced in June that she had lung cancer and recently underwent chemotherapy to treat it. She said that new advocates for gun control — including Ms. Giffords and former Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York — have joined the campaign. “With, unfortunately, my diagnosis of cancer, and I just turned 70 on Sunday, it’s time for their voices to be heard.” Over her nine terms, she has since seen the assault weapons ban expire, and only one of her major efforts to tighten gun restrictions passed: a bill to significantly improve instant background checks. Mrs. McCarthy said she was naïve when she first came to Congress, believing it would be easier to pass gun legislation. “I got the conversation going,” she said. A version of this article appears in print on January 9, 2014, on page A13 of the New York edition with the headline: Two House Democrats, McCarthy and McIntyre, Say They Will Retire. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Business   Dropbox Says Site Down After Maintenance Error, Not From Hackers. Advertisement   But the company said that the site went down because of a problem that arose during regular maintenance, not because it was compromised by hackers. The site was back up before midnight on Friday. “Today’s outage was caused during internal maintenance, and was not caused by external factor,” a company spokeswoman said in an email. “We apologize for any inconvenience.” Still, hackers tried to claim credit, saying the error was the result of a security vulnerability in the website. Hackers who call themselves AnonOpsKorea, a Korean offshoot of Anonymous, said one of their affiliates, using the Twitter handle 1775Sec, was responsible. In a post on Twitter, that individual said the attack was intended to avenge the death of Aaron Swartz, the renowned programmer and charismatic technology activist who committed suicide last year while facing a federal trial on charges of hacking into the M.I.T. computer network. The hacker claimed to have compromised Dropbox’s site using a security vulnerability and threatened to dump Dropbox data if the company did not plug the hole that allowed for the site compromise. “We are giving you time to fix your websites vulnerability. If it’s not fixed expect a Database leak!,” 1775Sec tweeted. Later, the hacker offered a link to what it said was a partial leak of information. But Dropbox said the information was posted a month ago and wasn’t the company’s information. The Dropbox spokeswoman said there was no loss of customer information. “In regards to claims of ‘leaked user information’ – this is a hoax,” she said. “This is not Dropbox data.” Quentin Hardy contributed reporting. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Food   Melissa Clark. The author and cook Melissa Clark takes you into her kitchen to show you how easy it can be to make exquisite and delicious meals.          Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics Obama, Dancing with the Star (Wars) Cuban Ballet School in Motion Best of Obama's Correspondents' Dinner Speech This Week’s Movies: May 6, 2016 Welfare and the Politics of Poverty Fort McMurray Wildfire Under Investigation Canada Wildfire Prompts Mass Evacuations Why It’s Hard to Keep the Pounds Off Cruz Responds to Trump’s Paternal Dig
Foreign   In Our Pages: January 11. Advertisement   PARIS — London has just experienced one of the blackest weeks in the whole history of Fleet street, four more or less important journals ceasing publication, while one of London’s leading pictorial papers has passed under the control of a new proprietor. The most surprising development is the change in the ownership of the ‘‘Daily Mirror,’’ which, although a separate company from the ‘‘Daily Mail’’ and Associated Newspapers, was under the direct wing of Lord Northcliffe, who held the bulk of the shares. Many hundred thousands of dollars have been sunk trying to attract English readers to yellow journalism, and the efforts have resulted in badly burned fingers to the promotor. 1939: Mysterious Roar Over Brooklyn BROOKLYN — There was terror in the Brooklyn air last night [Jan. 9]. It caused the greatest mass fright since the too- real broadcast of a ‘‘Martian Invasion’’ but there is no indictment against the radio this time — in fact the mystery is as enveloping as was the terror. A weird noise, called by some ‘‘a big noise’’ that ‘‘flew, like a cloud’’ over Queens, raised hair and goose flesh on burghers in several wards. It was a vibrating sound like that of a distant airplane. It increased in intensity and pitch until it drowned out the rumble of traffic and all but muffled the wail of police sirens. Then the noise faded to a distant purr.  This blog will share highlights and curiosities from The International Herald Tribune's storied reportage. While we will share coverage of historic events — the world wars, the women's suffrage movement, the great expeditions — we will also republish glimpses of less earth-shaking moments and the ephemera of daily life. The same stories that caught the eyes of our generations of editors now offer us insight into the lives and interests of generations of Trib readers. Read more » From the International Herald Tribune archives: Prince Victor Napoleon gives a treatise on French politics in 1891.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: British troops attack Irak forces in 1941.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: America awaits Germany’s reply to the president’s note on the Lusitania sinking in 1916.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: Part of Slovenia was formally annexed to Italy in 1941.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: Augustine Birrell resigned as Chief Secretary for Ireland in 1916.Read more… Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Health   The Weekly Health Quiz. Advertisement Advertisement In the news: sleep apnea, torn arteries and Google searches. Test your knowledge of this week’s health news. JAN. 9, 2014 Toby Bilanow/The New York Times
Movies   Movie Review: 'Cold Comes the Night'. The Times critic Manohla Dargis "Cold Comes the Night."          
Science   Tonics and Teas Sign Up for the Running Email. Advertisement Last week, in the course of cleaning out my office and downsizing my cookbook library, I came across an interesting book called “Tonics” by Robert A. Barnett. The book is a collection of recipes, not just for liquid tonics, but for all sorts of dishes made with foods and herbs thought to improve well being. It was a rare cold day in Los Angeles and I was inspired by the book to make some tonics of my own: hot infusions made with ingredients I had on hand in my pantry and produce basket. I brewed and tasted, and thought of the founders of Celestial Seasonings tea company, who in the late 1960s and early ‘70s had come up with such household favorites as Red Zinger and Sleepytime Tea doing just what I was doing. I didn’t work with herbs. I was thinking more along the lines of fruit, perfume and spice, and I had many ingredients that had been languishing in my pantry that came to mind. Take the rose petals and the barberries I had bought at my Iranian market and used in a few savory dishes; and the bags of dried fruits that I never seemed to use up. I also wanted to use turmeric, which is believed to offer many health benefits, in some of my teas, and I loved the results when I added a small amount to a lemon infusion and to a coconut and ginger tea. I won’t be starting a tea company with these new drinks, but I will be making them through the winter, and when hot weather arrives I’ll enjoy them iced. Barberry and Orange Tea: A delicious drink made with sour, zingy, vitamin C-rich dried fruit. Rose Petal and Vanilla Tea: A sweet infusion made with just water and three ingredients. Meyer Lemon and Ginger Infusion With Turmeric and Cayenne: You might want to reach for this tea if you feel a sore throat coming on.  Dried Apricot, Cherry and Cranberry Infusion: Simmering dried fruit with some sweet spices results in a great beverage for a snowy day.  Your health questions answered by Times journalists and experts. Your Questions | All » Get Well's Running email for practical tips, expert advice, exclusive content and a bit of motivation delivered to your inbox every week to help you on your running journey. Coming soon. How much do you know about the amazing things that go on in your gut? Take our quiz to find out about the creepy, crawly critters living in your home. What surface is the most friendly to the flu virus? Where’s the best place to stand when you’re talking to a sick person? How does sleep affect health, relationships and well-being? The “Reading the Mind in the Eyes Test” measures ability to understand others’ emotional states. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   N.F.L. Divisional Playoff Matchups. Advertisement Advertisement By BENJAMIN HOFFMANJAN. 10, 2014 Saints at Seahawks 4:35 p.m. Saturday, Fox Line: Seahawks by 8 The term Beast Mode entered the national vernacular three years ago, when Seattle’s Marshawn Lynch executed one of the most memorable runs in N.F.L. history. During a wild-card game against New Orleans, Lynch broke several tackles for a 67-yard touchdown run. His vicious stiff-arm, which seemed like something out of a video game, shoved cornerback Tracy Porter nearly 4 yards out of the way. Although the game was played in Seattle, the Seahawks’ victory was considered a major upset because they had won the N.F.C. West with a 7-9 record. Now Seattle, which went 13-3 this season, is the favorite, especially after thoroughly embarrassing the Saints in a 34-7 win in Week 13. The Seahawks finally proved to be mortal at home, losing to Arizona in Week 16, but they have few weaknesses. On offense Russell Wilson is a contender for most valuable player and Lynch can wear out a defensive line. On defense, Richard Sherman leads the best secondary in the N.F.L. even though Brandon Browner has been suspended indefinitely. Last weekend, New Orleans (11-5 in the regular season) won a playoff game on the road for the first time. But rain and temperatures near 50 were in Saturday’s forecast, weather that is hardly conducive to the Saints’ fast-paced style. To win, they will have to find their own version of Beast Mode. That may be too tall a task. Advertisement Pick: Seahawks Colts at Patriots 8:15 p.m. Saturday, CBS Line: Patriots by 7 To rally from a 28-point deficit, a team has to play poorly enough to be down by 28 points. That is just what Andrew Luck and Indianapolis did in last weekend’s 45-44 win against Kansas City. Put in a hole largely created by Luck’s three interceptions, the Colts turned the game around and stunned the Chiefs. The sloppy play was somewhat typical of Luck’s rookie year, but he matured quite a bit this season. He has guided Indianapolis to consecutive 11-5 records, and should not be as careless with the ball in this game. New England’s defense is strongest at cornerback, with Logan Ryan and Aqib Talib capable of big plays. But injuries have depleted the Patriots’ depth at linebacker, making the middle of the field an easier place for Indianapolis to work. When the Colts are on defense, they will have to hope that Robert Mathis, the N.F.L.’s leader with 19 ½ sacks, can get to Tom Brady early and often to hide their injury-depleted and underwhelming defense. The Patriots, who were 12-4 in the regular season, are big favorites at home and have the veteran leaders to take care of business. But a road playoff win would add to Luck’s growing reputation as a big-game quarterback. Pick: Colts 49ers at Panthers 1:05 p.m. Sunday, Fox Line: 49ers by 1 This matchup of dynamic young quarterbacks will overshadow the fact that two of the N.F.L.’s best defenses will do their best to contain them. San Francisco is known for its dominant front seven, including four of the league’s best defenders in Patrick Willis, NaVorro Bowman, Justin Smith and Aldon Smith. The 49ers’ secondary is not quite as strong, but cornerback Tramaine Brock had a breakout season and proved a tremendous upgrade from the injured Chris Culliver. And if Carlos Rogers’s hamstring allows him to play, the defense has few weak spots. Carolina does not yet have the reputation, but its defense, led by the standout linebacker Luke Kuechly, ranked ahead of the 49ers’ in yards and points allowed this season. The Panthers’ stellar secondary was aided greatly by a front seven that contributed an N.F.L.-best 60 sacks, including 15 by Greg Hardy. In Week 10, Carolina beat the 49ers in San Francisco by shutting down their offense. But since Week 12, the 49ers have found a different gear, buoyed greatly by finally having healthy wide receivers. They each finished the regular season 12-4. Advertisement The Panthers look like a force for years to come. But at this point, the 49ers have more options on offense, and the team with more playoff experience should be able to win on the road. Pick: 49ers Chargers at Broncos 4:40 p.m. Sunday, CBS Line: Broncos by 10 Whoever thinks San Diego is just happy to be in the playoffs has never watched Philip Rivers stalk the sideline. His intensity, in wins and losses, has inspired legions of admirers and just as many detractors. Rivers’s style of play, big on yards but also prone to mistakes, can be polarizing as well. The only thing everyone agrees on is that his bolo tie was something to behold during a postgame interview last weekend. Although Rivers can win or lose a game by himself, the Chargers’ defense proved more than up to the challenge of handling Denver this season. Peyton Manning led the Broncos (13-3) to an N.F.L.-record 606 points by breaking the records for passing yards and touchdowns. But they split their two games against San Diego and scored fewer than 30 points each time. The only other team to hold Denver under 30 was Kansas City in Week 11. The Broncos are heavily favored for a reason: The Chargers, at 9-7, barely qualified for the playoffs. But the confident Rivers is hardly willing to concede defeat. “This is a heck of a team,” he told reporters, referring to Denver. “It’s rare to play an opponent three times in a season, and being a division opponent, one we know well; they know us well. It’s going to be awesome.” Pick: Broncos Times are Eastern. Picks do not reflect the betting line. A version of this article appears in print on January 12, 2014, on page SP2 of the New York edition with the headline: Sunday's Matchups. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Travel   52 Places to Go in 2014. Advertisement Advertisement Witness a city in transformation, glimpse exotic animals, explore the past and enjoy that beach before the crowds. UPDATED September 5, 2014 A place to meditate on freedom, and the creative life that followed. When Nelson Mandela was incarcerated at Robben Island prison, he found inspiration in Cape Town. “We often looked across Table Bay at the magnificent silhouette of Table Mountain,” he said in a speech. “To us on Robben Island, Table Mountain was a beacon of hope. It represented the mainland to which we knew we would one day return.” Cape Town’s importance to Mandela, who made his first address there as a free man, will doubtless draw many visitors in the wake of his death. The country has transformed itself since Mandela’s imprisonment, but there’s still much to be done. Many in Cape Town have been grappling with that challenge, including its creative class, which has been examining whether inspired design can solve some of the issues stemming from years of inequality. The city formally takes up that issue this year during its turn as World Design Capital. Cape Town is celebrating design in all its forms, putting on fashion shows by students and established designers alike, hosting architecture open houses, welcoming the public into artists’ studios and folding the annual visual arts spectacular Design Indaba conference, which took place in February, into the design capital program. Also part of the lineup are locals seeking to rejuvenate impoverished black-majority townships: The Maboneng Lalela Project turns township homes into galleries and performance spaces; Foodpods constructs sustainable farms, giving residents access to healthy produce; and the Langa Quarter project seeks to make the precinct a cultural tourism destination. Cape Town is again reinventing itself, and the world is invited to its renaissance. Facebook Participate The rebirth of a quake-ravaged city. Three years after two large earthquakes devastated central Christchurch, the city is experiencing a rebirth with creativity and wit — thanks to the ingenuity of its hardy residents — and is welcoming tourists back again. Though much of the central city has yet to be rebuilt, entrepreneurs and volunteers are finding surprising ways to make temporary use of empty lots and bring life back to the downtown. The Gap Filler program, begun a couple of months after the first quake in September 2010 and expanded after a more destructive second quake in February 2011, has created a dance floor with coin-operated music and lights and even a nine-hole mini-golf course in vacant lots across the city. The Greening the Rubble campaign has since the 2010 quake been planting temporary gardens on the sites of demolished buildings. To replace the badly damaged 19th-century ChristChurch Cathedral, a magnificent transitional church by the Japanese architect Shigeru Ban opened in 2013 with sturdy cardboard tubes for the roof. Businesses are also trickling back downtown. One bar, built inside shipping containers, has a name that encapsulates the spirit of the entire city: Revival. Facebook Participate A glorious new preserve for the public. One hundred and thirty miles north of San Francisco, the moody bluffs of the Mendocino Coast have long been a spectacular place from which to observe marine life: passing humpback whales, sun-happy sea lions, foamy waves strewn with kelp. The incorporation of the Point Arena-Stornetta Public Lands — nearly 1,300 acres — gives hikers new access to a contiguous 12-mile stretch of coastline and fields of wildflowers, cypress forests and cliff areas (some overlooking dramatic blowholes, pinnacles and sea caves), much of it previously off-limits to the public. And Congressional proposals to include the north coast lands as part of the California Coastal National Monument have passed, which means better protection and more funds for maintenance; plans also exist to extend the California Coastal Trail through the new preserve. Facebook Participate On a rugged shore, Europe at its best. What if you could combine the rugged beauty you’d find on Croatia’s Dalmatian Coast with the ruins of an undiscovered Turkey or Greece, all wrapped in the easygoing nature characteristic of rural Italy — at a fraction of the cost? Turns out you can, on the coast of Albania. The roughly Maryland-size country, between Greece and Montenegro, sits about 45 miles east of Italy on the eastern shores of the Adriatic and has limestone-ringed beaches, ancient ruins like Butrint and waterfront inns where you can stay for less than $50 a night. Rampant development threatened to turn it all to concrete in the years after Communism, but a new government took office in 2013 on promises of keeping the coast authentic. Head to villages like Qeparo, within sight of Corfu, where you can kayak past Cold War submarine tunnels, swim by abandoned forts and watch the tide rise during a dinner of fresh fish at an inn called the Riviera. This is Europe when it was fresh and cheap. Facebook Participate Downtown? Really? Yes, thanks to a thriving food scene. Gone is the musty, lifeless, only-open-for-Kings-hockey-games reputation of downtown Los Angeles. While the museums in this corner of the city are thriving (the Los Angeles Museum of Contemporary Art is nearby), the growing dynamism of downtown is the food scene. Most notable is the Grand Central Market, an arcade of over 30 of the best food vendors in the city. Originally built in 1917, the market has been redone in the past year, attracting popular purveyors like G&B Coffee and, soon, Belcampo Meat Co. Just down the street is Alma, which was named the best new restaurant in the country by Bon Appétit magazine. And where there is good food there is good shopping. Stores have added cachet to the neighborhood; an outlet of the fashion label Acne Studios opened in December, and Aesop, a skin-care specialist, in May. Diners and shoppers alike also have a hip place to stay: An Ace Hotel opened early this year. Facebook Participate Africa’s latest conservation success story is a boon for travelers. Namibia’s communal conservancy movement, which pairs sustainable tourism with rural community outreach, has been a much-heralded success: In 2013, the country’s 79 conservancies received the prestigious Gift to the Earth Award from the World Wildlife Fund, and the stunning Namib Sand Sea Desert joined Unesco’s World Heritage list. Options abound for travelers who want to help the effort, including the Desert Rhino Camp, which Wilderness Safaris runs in partnership with the Save the Rhino Trust; the camp directly supports the conservancy, which has reversed dwindling rhino populations. Wilderness Safaris also plans to open the Hoanib Skeleton Coast Camp, on the Hoanib River in the north. And Namibia’s Tourism Board introduced three self-drive routes this year to point visitors toward less-visited parts of the country. Facebook Participate Epic biodiversity, and a newly renovated railway to get you there. Ecuador is famed as the home of the Galápagos, the beloved islands off the coast that feature mind-boggling wildlife — but the mainland is no slouch either. One of the most biodiverse countries in the world, Ecuador has over 1,600 species of birds, 4,000 kinds of orchids, one of the largest condor shelters on the planet — and one-fifth of the country (including the Galápagos) is protected. And there is a new way to see a good chunk of it: the recently refurbished Tren Crucero. The luxury vintage train starts in Quito (the first city ever to be declared a World Heritage site by Unesco) and travels through the Andes, over snow-capped mountains, past volcanoes, around a harrowing turn called the Devil’s Nose and through the countryside until arriving in the bustling city of Guayaquil. The four-day trip includes an excursion to Cotopaxi National Park — a place where you might see deer, wolves, bears or one of those condors. Facebook Participate Now open: One of the world’s largest caves. Son Doong Cave in the Quang Binh province of central Vietnam is one of the world’s largest caves and is now, for the first time, accessible to tourists, thanks to the tour operator Oxalis. Huge shafts of light penetrate its vast caverns, allowing forests of 100-foot-tall trees to thrive in spaces big enough to accommodate 40-story skyscrapers. Colossal 260-foot stalactites are also present. Monkeys, hornbills and flying foxes have all been spotted in this surreal habitat, first fully explored in 2009. While trips into Son Doong are limited in number (only 220 permits for the year) and to visitors with deep pockets (over $6,000 per trip), the nearby and more affordable Tu Lan Cave is also now open to adventurous travelers. Facebook Participate For Australian panache, go west. Perth, the capital of western Australia, has long been feted for its beaches, laid-back vibe and Aboriginal heritage, but lately Australia’s fourth-largest city is exhibiting the signs of a trendy transformation. Regional wine lists? Check. Modish new restaurants in repurposed spaces like stables (the Stables Bar), cottages (the Old Crow) or a printing press building (the Print Hall)? Check. International celebrity chefs including Jamie Oliver, whose Italian spot Jamie’s Italian recently opened? Up-and-coming neighborhoods like Mount Lawley and Northbridge, chockablock with cafes and vintage shops? Check and check. Transformation is evident on a larger scale, too: The Riverside project is infusing the eastern side of the city with parks, shops and housing plazas, while expansion of the new Crown Perth complex includes hotels — Crown Metropol and Crown Promenade — and posh restaurants like Nobu and La Vie Champagne Lounge. Now that first- and business-class lounges have opened at Los Angeles International Airport this year, the national airline Qantas makes it easy to get Down Under in style. Facebook Participate First-class architecture in the Netherlands’ second city. Post-World War II reconstruction has changed the face of one of Europe’s largest ports, where striking, cubed architecture gives shape to the most modern skyline in the country. But it’s not done yet. This is a banner year for ribbon cuttings to celebrate both new and reconfigured space: An overhaul of Rotterdam Centraal  train station in March has already unveiled a new shop-lined pedestrian passageway and the city’s first Starbucks. The renovated Kunsthal museum reopened in February. François Geurds, chef of the two-Michelin-starred restaurant FG, opened another restaurant in January. Come December, the massive arch of the Markthal, whose interior displays 3-D food photographs, becomes the country’s first indoor food hall. Need a launching pad? Check into a brand-new gem: the Rem Koolhaas-designed nhow hotel. Facebook Participate Urban and outdoor pursuits in one (reasonably) compact package. The traveler who wants to do it all should consider Taiwan. This island, roughly the size of the Netherlands, has an easy-to-navigate public transport network that links a cosmopolitan capital with a bounty of natural and man-made wonders. Taipei, whose robust art scene recently earned its selection as the World Design Capital for 2016, has more places to lay your head: A boutique hotel from the homegrown bookstore chain Eslite will join the recent arrivals Mandarin Oriental, Le Meridien and W. All of these should be a convenient base from which to do some sightseeing on 17 bike trails along the shores of Taipei’s many rivers and inlets or to take a foray into the city’s vibrant street food scene with a nightcap at the reservations-only bespoke bar Alchemy, which opened in 2012 to much acclaim. Four hours south by high-speed rail and bus, 70-square-mile Kenting National Park is home to wetlands, white sands, fishing villages and, starting this year, a ferry point for the deep sea fishing and diving paradise of Orchid Island. Up north in Keelung, a new National Museum of Marine Science and Technology has opened, part of a revitalization project at Badouzi Harbor, which is linked to nearby headlands by color-coded walking routes. And it all becomes cheaper to get to later this year, with the launch of budget carriers from China Airlines and TransAsia Airways. Facebook Participate An infusion of hip night life wakes up a humdrum city. Frankfurt, long considered strictly a financial capital and major travel hub, used to land on the culturati map once a year, during its annual book fair. A recent boom of restaurants and clubs, though, makes the case for permanent placement. Leading the city’s transformation is its fast-evolving red light district, where spots like Maxie Eisen, a deli-style cafe by day and a speakeasy-inspired bar by night, offer a sexiness that isn’t unseemly. In the city center, a buzzy pan-Asian restaurant called Moriki was just opened by the Berlin-based chef Duc Ngo with a menu that includes envelope-pushing courses like sushi pizza; and the new sleek Lamoraga, a modern Spanish restaurant, is pulling in the shopping crowds for lunch. By the end of next year, the developer Ardi Goldman plans to reinvent and reopen the famed King Kamehameha Club, which had its original heyday in the 1990s and 2000s. And growth extends to the art world: The 32,000-square-foot underground extension at the Städel Museum earned accolades from around the globe when it opened last year. Facebook Participate An ambitious art scene heads toward the international stage. Building on a strong historical legacy (Addis boasts one of East Africa’s oldest art schools) are a host of events scheduled for 2014: a photography festival, two film festivals and a jazz and world music festival. Thanks to the city’s diverse art institutions and galleries, including the artist-in-residence village Zoma Contemporary Art Center and the Asni Gallery (really more an art collective than a gallery), there is an art opening at least once a week. Even the local Sheraton puts on “Art of Ethiopia,” an annual show of new talent. But it’s the National Museum that, in May and June, hosted this year’s blockbuster exhibit, “Ras Tafari: The Majesty and the Movement,” devoted to Emperor Haile Selassie I and Rastafarianism. Facebook Participate A world-class World Cup getaway. Now that the World Cup is over, escape to Fernando de Noronha, a 21-island archipelago about 330 miles off the coast of one of the host cities, Recife. Here you’ll find 250-foot-high black cliffs muscling against peach-sand beaches, Portuguese hilltop forts and blue coves where humpbacks and spinner dolphins linger. Only one of the islands, Noronha, is inhabited, and the entire chain is protected as a park with just 246 visitors allowed per day. Regulations have kept Noronha relaxed, with only small hotels and roads rough enough to make dune buggies the rental cars of choice. Hike along cliffs to gorgeous beaches like Sancho, dive with sea turtles or climb Morro do Pico, a 1,059-foot-high volcanic pinnacle. Facebook Participate Leather jackets and skinny jeans join cowboy boots. Country music lovers have long made the pilgrimage to Nashville, but now the city has fast gained cachet among rock fans and foodies. The city’s vibrant scene is home to the Black Keys, Kings of Leon, Jeff the Brotherhood and Diarrhea Planet, who all play in town occasionally. And a youthquake is transforming scruffy neighborhoods like 12South and East Nashville into hipster hubs. New hangouts include Pinewood Social, a bar, restaurant, bowling alley and karaoke joint, and the 404, a restaurant and boutique hotel in a former auto garage. Add to that a thriving culinary scene, exemplified by the Music City Eats Festival, back for a second year in September. And Nashville’s old standbys — like the honky-tonk Tootsie’s Orchid Lounge and the venerable Ryman — are as fun as ever. Facebook Participate New reasons to play, and watch players, in Scotland’s yards. Riddled with lochs and crested by moody Highlands, Scotland adds to its already considerable outdoorsy appeal this year. In April, the John Muir Way, named for the conservationist originally from Scotland, expanded to 134 miles from 45 miles, newly spanning the farmland and forests of the country’s midsection. Organizers estimate it will take eight to 12 days on foot or four to six by bike to complete the coast-to-coast route running from Muir’s boyhood hometown Dunbar west to the Loch Lomond area. The attractions extend beyond amateur workouts. This summer, Glasgow staged the 2014 Commonwealth Games, Olympic-style competitions for Britain and the former British colonies, and in September Gleneagles resort in the Highlands will host the Ryder Cup golf competition. Sports and hospitality meet at Cromlix House Hotel, a 15-room resort that the tennis champion and local hero Andy Murray opened earlier this year in a Victorian mansion in Dunblane. Facebook Participate An oil boom town gets its cultural legs. Flush with oil money, Calgary has morphed from ho-hum city on the prairie into a cultural hub, with offerings far beyond the Stampede, the annual rodeo and festival. Locals stroll over the tubular Peace Bridge, designed by Santiago Calatrava, opened in 2012. Public art is part of life; in 2013 Jaume Plensa completed Wonderland, a 39-foot-tall steel mesh head installed in front of the new skyline-transforming Norman Foster-designed Bow Tower. They join beloved cultural institutions like the One Yellow Rabbit Performance Theater, whose dancer and choreographer Denise Clarke was in December named to the Order of Canada, one of the country’s highest honors. Facebook Participate Sand and surf, now a (low-cost) hop from Osaka. The yen is the weakest it’s been against the dollar in years, putting Japan more within reach in 2014. For low prices coupled with laid-back attitudes, look way south to the island of Ishigaki, 250 miles south of Okinawa Island and far from the bustle of Tokyo. The 85-square-mile island, largely undiscovered, is home to sunburned surfers, sandy beaches and beautiful coral reefs. And it’s never been easier to reach: A new airport opened here in March 2013, and Japan’s new low-cost carrier, Peach, just began service from Osaka. Facebook Participate A pristine slice of biodiversity is home to a new luxury eco-resort. Set between Mount Kenya and the Great Rift Valley, the Laikipia Plateau teems with wildlife: elephants, leopards, endangered rhinos and one of the highest concentrations of zebras on the continent. Now the area has also become a conservation success story, sustained and protected through an unusual mix of public and private partnerships and a network of environmentally minded ranchers. With the 2013 opening of Segera, a resort owned by Jochen Zeitz, a German-born executive, there is also a new spot to admire its pristine landscapes. The 50,000-acre property includes an enviable collection of contemporary African art, an organic and solar-powered farm and a wine collection focusing on African labels. And more sustainable travel may be on the horizon: A new national park on the area’s southwestern border has been proposed by the government. Facebook Participate A volcano, a temple, a shrine and now a place to stay. This central Javan sultanate draws crowds for its proximity to bewitching attractions: the monumental, wedding cake-esque Buddhist temple Borobudur, the soft-serve-ice-cream-shaped Hindu shrines of Prambanan, and pre-sunrise hikes to summit Indonesia’s friskiest volcano, Mount Merapi (which most recently erupted in 2013). But finding a decent room has never been easy, until now. Thanks to tax breaks for hotel development, 20 new starred hotels, to complement the city’s existing 30, will open through 2015. Among them are Zest Hotel (a Swiss-Belhotel brand) at the end of 2014 and, according to a director of the Tourism Promotion Agency of Yogyakarta, three new properties from Accor, whose brands include Sofitel and ibis. Facebook Participate A ski area spruces up with new terrain, lodging and an entire base village. For decades Northstar-at-Tahoe, on the north end of Lake Tahoe, was a mostly overlooked ski hill. Since 2004, however, more than $1 billion has poured into the resort. Though weather in the region has been fickle so far this season, the improvements are impressive. And they aren’t limited to the base village that has risen at the renamed Northstar, centered around a huge ice rink ringed by couches and fire pits. The Ritz-Carlton, Lake Tahoe opened a few years ago, and Vail Resorts, since buying the ski resort in late 2010, has built an on-mountain day lodge, added more terrain and installed the new Promised Land Express lift on the resort’s Backside. Tahoe is resurgent, as resorts from Squaw Valley to Homewood undertake improvements with an eye toward bidding for the 2026 Winter Olympics. In the next few years expect to see everything from the Cal Neva Resort, once owned by Frank Sinatra, open after a big renovation, to a South Lake Tahoe with new waterfront hotels. Facebook Participate A photogenic (and historic) ale trail. The sprawling northern county of Yorkshire is becoming a big destination for beer lovers, thanks to a recently published guidebook called “Great Yorkshire Beer” and a renewed interest in historic breweries like Samuel Smith (founded in 1758) and Timothy Taylor (from 1858). Spend an evening crawling through the Fat Cat, the Kelham Island Tavern and other award-winning pubs in Sheffield — recently called Britain’s best beer city by the connoisseur Adrian Tierney-Jones — then travel to Leeds, whose compact center is home to the Victoria Hotel, the Cross Keys and other public houses that pull pints on traditional hand pumps. A final stay in the photogenic city of York offers a Tudor-style pub at the end of every cobbled lane, as well as modern beer temples like York Tap, Pivni and the House of Trembling Madness. Facebook Participate Reborn, relentless and still over the top. Five years ago, one of the planet’s most ambitious cities appeared to be dying. Crushed with debt, Dubai found its megaprojects and skyscrapers scuttled or scrapped. The city went from juggernaut to joke. But now, it’s back. Economically surging, Dubai has won its bid to host World Expo 2020 and has unveiled its Tourism Vision, also for 2020, a plan to attract 20 million tourists — double the current crowd. Last October witnessed the first passenger terminal at Dubai World Central Al Maktoum International Airport, and travelers will discover colossal new hotels like the 555-room Conrad Dubai and the 77-story JW Marriott Marquis Dubai, which Guinness World Records recognizes as the tallest hotel in the world. This year, a new tram system will be inaugurated, along with some theme parks, including the first phase of Dubai Adventure Studios, the first phase of IMG Worlds of Adventure, and Holy Quran Park (devoted to the Islamic holy book). Facebook Participate New saints, a new(ish) pope and newly restored treasures beckon. Pope Francis, who has nearly 4.8 million followers on Twitter and routinely makes headlines for doing things like inviting atheists to join the cause for peace in his Christmas message, is widely viewed as reinvigorating the scandal-plagued, conservative-leaning Roman Catholic Church. (Just ask Time magazine, which last December named him the 2013 Person of the Year.) The first South American pope is so popular that the Vatican estimated that nearly a million visitors came in April for Holy Week and the canonization of John XXIII and John Paul II. Services commemorating the new saints will continue throughout the year. The faithful can also enjoy the fruits of restorations that have taken years, like that of Bernini’s colonnade in St. Peter’s Square and the reopening of the Via Triumphalis necropolis, a vast ancient Roman cemetery first uncovered in the 1950s. And pilgrims can stay up-to-date on news and events, including restorations and exhibitions, thanks to the Pope’s new mobile app. Facebook Participate South American beach towns, before they go upscale. Around glamorous Punta del Este and boho-chic José Ignacio, there’s no deficiency of boutique hotels, expat art galleries and exclusive waterfront brasseries. But farther east along the Uruguayan Riviera, a relatively untrodden stretch of Atlantic coast tucked between Argentina and Brazil, sun, sand and simplicity remain the draw — for now. In the Rocha region, villages like Cabo Polonio, La Pedrera, San Antonio and Punta del Diablo are just starting to attract serious international attention, bringing a sprinkling of first-rate accommodation — like Brisas, a clifftop 14-room inn restored by an Argentine tech mogul — without compromising the area’s natural charms: miles of undeveloped beach, rolling pastures and a culture where gaucho cowboys and fishermen with wooden boats aren’t just props. Facebook Participate A cultural capital springs to life. Chennai, in the state of Tamil Nadu (and formerly known as Madras), was long considered the gateway to popular South Indian tourist destinations like Kerala but was overlooked as an attraction itself. It is, however, a national cultural capital and home to several dance and music schools like Kalakshetra for dance and the Music Academy for Carnatic South Indian music, which both regularly hold performances around town. There are also historic sites aplenty, including the Kapaleeswarar Temple, built in the name of the Hindu god Shiva. Fresh buzz makes this city especially enticing: Several major hotels including the Park Hyatt have recently opened, and there is a slew of new and trendy clubs, boutiques and restaurants, including Ottimo for excellent pizzas. Facebook Participate An African luxury hot spot that’s become easier to get to. This archipelago of 115 islands in the Indian Ocean now has one of the world’s most expensive hotels. The listed price for a villa at the North Island resort, on a private island where the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge stayed during their honeymoon, ranges from 2,582 to 4,079 euros (about $3,670 to $5,800) per night; the Doubletree by Hilton Seychelles, which opened last year is, thankfully, more affordable. The appeal goes beyond pampering and powdery beaches: The Seychelles is also home to some 100,000 giant Aldabra tortoises that live on a coral atoll that is a Unesco World Heritage site. Air Seychelles recently signed code-share agreements with Air Berlin, Cathay Pacific Airways and other airlines, making these islands about 1,000 miles off the east coast of Africa more accessible. Facebook Participate A Phuket-like hideaway, but still unspoiled. The southern Thailand town of Krabi lies just a 45-minute boat ride across the Andaman Sea from Phuket. But you can spare yourself the trip to Phuket — plenty of riches lie here, and you don’t have to fight the crowds to enjoy them. Krabi sits next to the Mu Koh Lanta National Park, a prime spot for hiking, rock climbing and elephant trekking. If you do get restless, there are about 130 pristine islands nearby that are ripe for exploration and virtually undeveloped save for a few ancient monasteries. And Krabi, which used to have few options for accommodations and was hard to get to, is now more tourist-friendly. A number of hotels have opened in recent years, including Phulay Bay, a Ritz-Carlton property. A marina, Port Takola, is in the works and will be home to restaurants, night life and shopping, and a new terminal that has opened at Krabi Airport means that there are more flights to and from this gem. Facebook Participate Ditch those poles. Art and bike trails await. This ski town has a big development off-piste: The long-awaited reinvented Aspen Art Museum opened its doors this summer. The 33,000-square-foot space, designed by the Japanese architect Shigeru Ban, is meant to reflect the mountain experience. Visitors first take a lift to the roof and take in the view from the sculpture garden before descending to tour the galleries. There is also plenty of news for outdoor types this year, too, with new mountain biking trails planned throughout Aspen and Snowmass, a new mountain skills center and expanded lift-serviced biking. Facebook Participate Natural wonders are in danger. Go see them before it’s too late. The Icelandic government has spent decades protecting its glaciers, pools, ponds, lakes, marshes and permafrost mounds in the Thjorsarver Wetlands, part of the central highlands, which constitute some 40 percent of the entire country, mostly in the interior. But last year, the government announced plans to revoke those protections, allowing for the construction of hydropower plants (instead of glaciers and free-flowing rivers, imagine man-made reservoirs, dams, paved roads and power lines). “If they get into this area, there will be no way to stop them from destroying the wetlands completely,” said Arni Finnsson, the chairman of the Iceland Nature Conservation Association. If you ever want to see Iceland in all of its famously raw natural beauty, go now. Facebook Participate Soundscapes and culture shine in northern Sweden. A hotbed of hardcore and heavy metal music through the 1990s, this northern city has welcomed all genres during its tenure as a European Capital of Culture this year. Music has taken center stage at outdoor opera performances, a crowdsourced music festival and an orchestral tribute to the local hardcore band Refused. Visual arts focused on the culture of indigenous Sami people are on exhibit at Bildmuseet, the city’s contemporary arts museum that reopened in 2012 in a glass-and-wood building designed by Henning Larsen Architects. And it’s all easier to reach thanks to a new higher-speed rail connection from Stockholm. Facebook Participate Skip smog-choked cities — and face masks — and head out to China’s wild frontier. With pollution skyrocketing in China’s showcase cities, visitors to the country are increasingly seeking out greener pastures to explore. Set deep in the tropics of southern Yunnan province, Xishuangbanna is about as lush as you can get — the region boasts the richest biodiversity in China, including some of the country’s last wild elephants. In February 2013, the area went upscale with its first five-star hotel — the Anantara Xishuangbanna Resort & Spa, which organizes tea-leaf picking trips in mountainside plantations. More action-oriented experiences are possible, as well, such as the tour group WildChina’s jungle biking trips or treks along the caravan route plied by tea traders centuries ago. Facebook Participate A mountain makeover from overlooked to opulent. Andermatt has long been a quiet town of Alpine farmers and bargain-seeking skiers. But the former Swiss Army outpost began its transformation into a bona fide ski destination with the opening last December of the Chedi Andermatt. The 104-room resort, housed in a modernized chalet with a Japanese restaurant among several dining options, indoor and outdoor pools and a 10-treatment-room spa, is just the first phase of a big new development of apartment buildings, homes, five more hotels and a golf course in the coming years over 321 acres. The pedestrian village will offer skiers access by gondola to the nearly 9,800-foot Gemsstock Mountain, with future lifts to the larger nearby ski area of Sedrun planned to open in 2015. Facebook Participate In the land of cars, cycling (and culture) get the limelight. An urban cycling model has arrived in Indianapolis: the new $63 million, eight-mile bike-friendly Indy Cultural Trail. The path connects five downtown neighborhoods, including arty Fountain Square, to top downtown sites, including the Capitol Building, City Market and White River State Park, a 250-acre park that hosts the Indianapolis Zoo and six more major attractions. Bicycles can be rented along the paved and lighted pathway, allowing riders to cruise past public art, including a motion-activated fireflylike swarm of LED lights. City officials say that planners from Cologne, Germany, to Portland, Ore., have come to see how the city most famous for a 500-mile car race managed to swap auto for bike lanes and still keep everything rolling smoothly. Facebook Participate River cruising swells on the Danube of Asia. Like the Danube in Europe, the Mekong River in Southeast Asia has become a vital river cruising course, with a variety of small-ship itineraries linking Vietnam and Cambodia. Late last year, Pandaw River Expeditions upgraded two of its ships, the Mekong Pandaw and Tonle Pandaw, enlarging public spaces, adding gyms and stocking cabins with iPads. In 2012, the company launched the 32-guest Angkor Pandaw, offering three- to seven-night itineraries, while Avalon Waterways set the 32-passenger Avalon Angkor sailing between Ho Chi Minh City and Siem Reap over seven nights. In September, Aqua Expeditions will introduce the 20-suite Aqua Mekong, offering guide-led shore excursions to temples, villages and wildlife-rich areas via skiffs. Facebook Participate Out of an economic crisis, a city surges back. Vibrancy and innovation can bloom even in hard times. Exhibit A is Greece’s ancient capital, which was hit hard by the global economic crisis and yet is seeing change at sites old and new. First the old: At the Acropolis, the famous Caryatids statues continue to get a restoration in 2014. And the new: The National Museum of Contemporary Art will soon open in a former brewery complex. Neighborhoods have also seen a resurgence, including the quickly gentrifying Monastiraki and the still gritty Kerameikos-Metaxourgeio; the latter will get a cultural lift in 2015 from the biannual ReMap art event. Travelers will have a new lodging option by the end of the year, when a revived Emporikon Hotel opens on Aiolou, a street that is also home to a host of new dining spots. Facebook Participate A scenic, low-key destination on the verge of discovery. Most vacationers to La Republica hole up in the all-inclusives north and east, overlooking the rarely traveled southwest. The port town of Barahona is the gateway to the cactus-strewn region’s riches, like the hauntingly beautiful Bahia de las Aguilas beach and the eight climate zones at the geological depression Hoyo de Pelempito, both blissfully devoid of people. But there are signs of the government’s vision to develop the area. The abandoned former Barcelo Bahoruco Beach Resort will partly open at the end of 2014, and two separate 300-room projects — near La Canoa and San Rafael Beach — are in the final stages of design approval. For now, you can experience the quiet life at the thatch-roofed Casa Bonita, or at Rancho Platon, which has a tree house raised between the palms. Facebook Participate Chasing the northern lights? This might be the year. There aren't many reasons to visit the frigid region surrounding the North Pole, but the darkest months, from September through March, offer the most stunning of them: northern lights, that colorful spectacle of solar particles entering our atmosphere. And there are some comfortable ways to see them, thanks to hotels offering northern lights safaris, including the newly opened Ion Luxury Adventure Hotel in Iceland and the Icehotel in Swedish Lapland (and actually within the Arctic Circle). Facebook Participate On the African coast, music thrives in a commercial capital. Tanzania may be best known for the snow-capped peaks of Mount Kilimanjaro and the game-packed plains of the Serengeti, but the real pulse of the country is found in its largest city, Dar es Salaam. An eclectic mix of music echoes through the beach clubs, open-air bars and nightclubs of this Indian Ocean coastal city. Old-school dance music competes with Swahili hip-hop and traditional drumming, all drawing from the city’s African, Indian and Arab influences. Add in the street food, the beaches and the fact that the year-old African low-cost carrier Fastjet uses Dar as its hub, and it’s easy to see that this commercial capital is more than a stopover on the way to Tanzania’s natural splendor. It is an African metropolis coming into its own. Facebook Participate A revitalized city center welcomes new museums and streetcars. Atlanta plans several ribbon cuttings in 2014, but the main event is the National Center for Civil and Human Rights, opened in June next to the Centennial Olympic Park and the Georgia Aquarium downtown. The 42,000-square-foot, environmentally friendly museum features permanent galleries devoted to domestic and international rights struggles and houses the Martin Luther King Jr. papers owned by Morehouse College. By November, visitors will be able to take the new Atlanta Streetcar on a 2.7-mile loop that will link the park to the Martin Luther King Jr. National Historic Site and other stops. Another parkside attraction, the 94,000-square-foot College Football Hall of Fame, is opening in time for fall kickoff of the N.C.A.A. season. Facebook Participate Skiing, soba and snow monkeys. For nearly a century, visitors have been lured to this ski destination, a 90-minute drive from Nagano, by affordability and a host of charms: fine powder, long slopes and charming cobblestone lanes lined with traditional ryokan inns, generations-old soba noodle shops and natural hot spring baths. But the recent arrival of stylish, foreigner-friendly restaurants, cafes and bars have infused the area with new energy, offering travelers just the right mix of old and new. Microbrews and excellent coffee are served at ski-in/ski-out Craft Room, while Tamon prepares innovative kaiseki cuisine using local ingredients. The lantern-hung rooms at Jon Nobi are popular among international skiers, as is its chic izakaya restaurant Himatsuri, inspired by the town’s fire festival, held annually on Jan. 15. The Asian operator Backyard Travel offers 10-day itineraries to explore Nozawa and nearby sights like a seventh-century temple and a refuge for the area’s famed snow monkeys. Facebook Participate Serbian wine? Time to take a sip. The Balkan Peninsula has a wine culture that dates back hundreds of years, but war and political unrest over the last century decimated Serbian vineyards. As recently as a decade ago, Serbia produced virtually no wine that met international standards. But progress has been swift. Recently, small producers have revived the Subotica-Horgos wine region near the northern border with Hungary. Here, the Palic Wine Route has been attracting domestic wine tourists who spend days sampling local cabernet sauvignon in wine cellars, sipping dry Trijumf white during dinner at Bosscaffe and unwinding in the Hotel Galleria‘s high-tech spa. Facebook Participate A museum’s entrance makes for something new in the state of Denmark. Even angst-ridden Prince Hamlet, literature’s most famous Dane, might be cheered by the new Maritime Museum of Denmark, which recently opened in his hometown Elsinore. Designed by the architectural firm Bjarke Ingels Group, the glassy structure is built into a U-shaped dry dock and filled with slanted floors and zigzag passageways that evoke ocean-rocked ships’ decks. Maritime relics — from torpedoes to Lego pirate ships — mix with electronic maps and films that explore the romance of the sea, shipboard existence and trade, both centuries ago and today. Interactive exhibits allow you to run your own trade company, navigate by the stars and ink a sailor’s tattoo. For additional watery wonders, head to Copenhagen’s new Blue Planet aquarium, billed as the largest in Northern Europe. Facebook Participate Haute cuisine comes to the lush landscapes of the Lake District. The British dining scene is expanding beyond London, and the chef Simon Rogan deserves much of the credit, having helped elevate the Lake District village of Cartmel into one of England’s most unlikely culinary destinations. His three restaurants in the medieval village — the Michelin two-starred L’Enclume, Rogan & Company and his most recent addition, the Pig & Whistle — have menus featuring whatever’s fresh on his nearby farm. Cartmel is also home to a celebrated farmers’ market, Cartmel Cheeses and the Cartmel Village shop, renowned for its sticky toffee pudding. What’s more, the village is a cozy base from which to explore the Lake District, once an inspiration to William Wordsworth and Beatrix Potter. Facebook Participate New peaks open up for alpine adventurers. This Himalayan republic is the mother lode of alpinism, home to eight of the world’s 10 highest summits (including Everest). So when a Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation subcommittee recommended last September that Nepal allow access to 165 new peaks in the Kanchenjunga massif this year — 13 of them above 23,000 feet — the world’s mountaineering community was aflutter. Some welcomed the announcement, while others dismissed it, saying the government had stretched the meaning of “peak” in a few cases to include subpeaks within mountains that were already accessible in order to rake in more in fees. Even so, the proposal was significant since it was the first such release in a decade. And though the government scaled back the scope of the original proposal, it did formally open 104 of the new peaks in May. Facebook Participate Feel like reminiscing? A city is awash in anniversaries. Vienna is home to some 450 balls each year, from traditional waltzes to the “seriously outlandish” Rosenball for the gay community, and this year is the 200th anniversary since the city’s ball culture took root. You could mark the occasion by attending one, but it wouldn’t be the only date to celebrate in the capital city this year. Visitors can pay homage at the Sigmund Freud Museum since it has been 75 years since the psychoanalyst’s death. The city is also commemorating the 100th anniversary of World War I with special exhibits and the European Peace Walk, a permanent route from Vienna to Trieste through five countries. There are also new art spaces, a new transportation hub, more direct flights from the United States and offbeat places to stay, like Urbanauts’ former storefronts or Chez Cliché’s themed apartments, with décor inspired by fictional hosts, such as Marie Therese, who loves Baroque furnishings and classical music. Facebook Participate Even a 1,200-year-old lost city has some new draws. If you’ve seen the temple complex of Angkor Wat in Cambodia, then the country’s lost city of Mahendraparvata, its majestic temples on Phnom Kulen and the stone animal carvings at the site of Srah Damrei (elephant pond) should be next on your list. About 30 miles from Siem Reap, Mahendraparvata predates Angkor Wat by about 350 years and was the birthplace of the Khmer Empire in A.D. 802. Although the city has been known about for several decades, researchers in 2013 discovered new temples and a network of roads and dikes that had been concealed under thick mountain vegetation. Facebook Participate Croatia’s architectural and musical gem lies inland. Forget Croatia’s beloved coast: The inland city Varazdin is one of the country’s most picturesque and well-preserved areas. One hour north of Zagreb, this small metropolis of 50,000 has an immaculate cobblestoned town center and is stocked with Baroque churches and palaces like the Draskovic. The theme continues with an annual Baroque music festival, but that’s where it ends. Other music-themed festivals and concerts are decidedly modern and change from year to year: One, the Radar Festival, for contemporary stars, has drawn names such as Bob Dylan and Carlos Santana, and various other festivals throughout the year such as Spancir Fest, celebrated from the end of August to September, attract artists and musicians from around Europe. Facebook Participate Reinventing a Florida city’s reputation. Once mocked for its thousands of green benches dotted with senior citizens, St. Petersburg is anything but stationary. With a redeveloped waterfront, a stunning Dali Museum, and sophisticated restaurants in place, the downtown energy is now heading up historic Central Avenue, thanks in part to the craft beer scene. Among the many recent arrivals, artsy Cycle Brewing features Fixie and Endo ales, while Green Bench Brewing Co., the name a nod to those erstwhile icons, invites winter escapees to its sunny taproom and beer garden. Refuel at the ambitious Rococo Steak, set in a renovated 1920s YWCA, then hit the Tap Room of the reinvented Hollander Hotel. Facebook Participate More flights and lodges in Central America’s eco-frontier. Twenty years ago, when Francis Ford Coppola opened Blancaneaux Lodge in western Belize, relatively few travelers had ventured into this small Central American country. Slowly they arrived, many of them curious to witness the scenery that had captivated the film director, which he described in an email as “completely remote, with a beautiful pristine river you could drink the water out of and the most star-studded night sky I had ever seen.” Since then, upscale rustic hotels have cropped up all over Belize — there’s El Secreto in Ambergris Caye, for example, and Belcampo, an eco-lodge and sustainable farm in the south that’s about to unveil a sophisticated redesign — adding to the lure of rain forests, Mayan ruins and coral reefs. It helps that Belize is easier to reach: Delta recently began nonstop flights from Los Angeles to Belize City, and regional carriers like Tropic Air have expanded their routes, connecting Belize to resorts like Cancún and making remote towns like San Ignacio more accessible. Facebook Participate What you’d expect (natural beauty) and not (world-class museum). This semisecret gem of the South Pacific, a three-hour flight from Sydney, is attracting visitors like never before. Thank infrastructural upgrades like a refurbished international airport, improved roads and bridges, and the arrival of high-profile properties like the new Hilton Noumea La Promenade Residences and the Sheraton New Caledonia Deva Resort & Spa. An island itinerary reads like a fantasy novel: snorkeling and diving in one of the world’s largest lagoons, an aquamarine stunner populated by thousands of coral and marine species and home to the world’s second largest reef (after the Great Barrier); horseback riding through verdant mountains and indigenous Kanak villages; kayaking by moonlight among the submerged forest of the Blue River Provincial Park. The cosmopolitan capital, Nouméa, has its own allures, like Le Roof, where you might spot dolphins diving in the distance while savoring the fresh oysters, and the Tjibaou Cultural Center, a Renzo Piano-designed museum housing one of the world’s largest collections of Pacific art. Facebook Participate Once a kitsch capital, now earning a reputation for food and sports. Known for its remarkable natural beauty and tourist kitsch, Niagara Falls is now evolving into a draw for those who love food as well as those who seek thrills. The Niagara Falls Culinary Institute opened a high-end restaurant, deli, patisserie and gelateria steps from the American Falls, transforming the area’s dining scene overnight. A gastro pub called the Griffon Pub, which features 50 beers on tap and creative New American dishes like gnocchi poutine, opened a few miles east of the falls last year. On the Canadian side, oenophiles can get a taste of the region’s growing wine scene just a short bike ride from the falls along the Niagara River Recreation Trail. Nondining attractions are plentiful, too. This year, Canadians have hosted two major War of 1812 bicentennial re-enactments in the area, and since May visitors have been able to see the falls from a new luxury catamaran. Tourism officials on the Canadian side appear poised to allow daredevils to zip line across or rappel down the Niagara Gorge later this year. Facebook Participate Here’s your chance to weigh in on our selections. Which destinations do you most want to visit? What did we miss? Want to know how we put our list together? Here are some answers to frequently asked questions. This year, we’ve also collected a roundup of major events happening in 2014, from food to art to music. Produced by Alicia DeSantis, Jessie DeWitt, Lexi Mainland, Sona Patel, Josh Robinson, Dan Saltzstein, James Thomas, Josh Williams, Nancy Donaldson and Margaret Cheatham Williams Because of an editing error, the cover article last Sunday about 52 places to go in 2014 misstated the name of a festival in Varazdin, Croatia. It is the Spancir Festival, not Spanor. The cover article on Jan. 12 about 52 places to go in 2014 contained several errors. The Thjorsarver Wetlands in Iceland are part of the central highlands, which constitute some 40 percent of Iceland. The wetlands themselves do not constitute 40 percent of the country. Two of the airlines scheduled to provide budget service to Taiwan are China Airlines, not China Airways, and TransAsia Airways, not TransAsia Air. The Commonwealth Games to be staged in Glasgow this summer are competitions for Britain, which includes England, and the former British colonies; the games are not for England and the former colonies. And Nepal is a republic, not a kingdom. An earlier version of this article described the damage suffered by a church in Christchurch, New Zealand, imprecisely. ChristChurch Cathedral was badly damaged in earthquakes in 2010 and 2011; it was not destroyed.
U.S.   W.V. Governor Issues Warning on Water. Gov. Earl Ray Tomblin urged affected residents to avoid using tap water after a chemical spill in West Virginia.          
Business   Appeals Court Upholds BP Oil Spill Settlement. Advertisement Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSJAN. 10, 2014 NEW ORLEANS — Over BP’s objections, a federal appeals court on Friday upheld a judge’s approval of the company’s multibillion-dollar settlement with lawyers for businesses and residents who claim the immense 2010 oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico cost them money. BP has argued that Judge Carl Barbier of Federal District Court and the court-appointed claims administrator, Patrick Juneau, have misinterpreted settlement terms in ways that would force the oil giant, based in London, to pay for billions of dollars in inflated or false claims by businesses. During a hearing in November before a three-judge panel of the Fifth Federal Circuit Court of Appeals, a BP lawyer argued that Judge Barbier’s 2012 approval of the deal should not stand unless the company ultimately prevails in its continuing dispute over business payments. But the divided panel ruled on Friday that Judge Barbier did not err by failing to determine more than a year ago whether the class of eligible claimants included individuals who have not actually suffered any injury related to the spill. Affirming Judge Barbier’s 2012 ruling, the court said in its 48-page majority opinion that it could not agree with arguments raised by BP and others who separately objected to the settlement. Advertisement “No case cited by BP or the objectors suggests that a district court must also safeguard the interests of the defendant, which in most settlements can protect its own interests at the negotiating table,” the ruling says. BP did not immediately comment on the decision on Friday. One of the three appellate judges, Emilio M. Garza, disagreed with the majority in a 14-page dissent, saying the “attempted global settlement fails in a narrow, but significant, regard” and should be vacated so it can be fixed. Plaintiffs’ lawyers have argued that BP simply undervalued the settlement and underestimated how many claimants would be eligible for payments. “Today’s ruling is an enormous victory for the Gulf, and an important step forward in ensuring that every eligible claimant is fully compensated according to the objective, transparent formulas detailed in the settlement agreement that BP co-authored and agreed to,” said lawyers for plaintiffs, Steve Herman and Jim Roy, who negotiated the settlement and urged the Fifth Circuit to uphold it. A version of this article appears in print on January 11, 2014, on page B7 of the New York edition with the headline: Appeals Court Upholds Oil Spill Settlement. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Foreign   New Clashes Erupt in Ukraine After Trial. Advertisement Advertisement By DAVID M. HERSZENHORNJAN. 10, 2014 At least a dozen protesters were injured in clashes with riot police in Kiev after a Ukrainian court on Friday convicted three men of plotting to topple a statue of Vladimir Lenin in 2011 in Boryspil, a city southeast of the capital. The protesters had denounced the prosecution of the three men as politically motivated and a “show trial” and pointed to evidence showing that the Boryspil City Council had voted to remove the Lenin statue even before the alleged plot was discovered. About 100 protesters had gathered at the courthouse in Kiev for the verdict. The clashes began after the three defendants were sentenced to six years in prison. Among the injured was Yuri V. Lutsenko, a former interior minister and an outspoken opposition leader who helped coordinate the recent mass demonstrations in central Kiev against the government of President Viktor F. Yanukovich. Local news agencies reported that Mr. Lutsenko had been knocked unconscious. Mr. Lutsenko, who was also an organizer of the 2004 Orange Revolution, is the leader of an opposition party called the Third Ukrainian Republic. A version of this brief appears in print on January 11, 2014, on page A5 of the New York edition with the headline: Ukraine: New Clashes Erupt After Trial. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Sports   By the Numbers. A quick look at the hidden arithmetic behind politics, business, news and cultural events like Beatlemania and the Super Bowl.          Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics Obama, Dancing with the Star (Wars) Cuban Ballet School in Motion Best of Obama's Correspondents' Dinner Speech This Week’s Movies: May 6, 2016 Welfare and the Politics of Poverty Fort McMurray Wildfire Under Investigation Canada Wildfire Prompts Mass Evacuations Why It’s Hard to Keep the Pounds Off Cruz Responds to Trump’s Paternal Dig
Business   For Financier, a Final Try to Avoid U.S. Charges. Advertisement Advertisement By JACK EWINGJAN. 12, 2014 A lawyer for Florian Homm, a German financier wanted by United States authorities, says he will appeal to the Italian Ministry of Justice in a last-ditch attempt to prevent the former hedge fund manager from being extradited to Los Angeles to face charges of securities fraud. On Friday, Italy’s highest court cleared the way for Mr. Homm, 54, to be sent to Los Angeles for trial on federal charges that he defrauded investors of at least $200 million. The most serious of the four felony counts carry maximum sentences of 25 years in prison. The last hope for Mr. Homm, who was arrested on United States charges in Italy last year after five years in hiding, is that the Italian Ministry of Justice will block the extradition, but that is considered unlikely. Mr. Homm’s lawyers argued that he has multiple sclerosis and is not healthy enough to withstand the stress of extradition and trial. Mr. Homm “firmly believes he will be exonerated, but we are gravely concerned about his ability to survive this ordeal,” Jan Lawrence Handzlik, a Los Angeles lawyer representing Mr. Homm, said on Saturday in an emailed statement. The Italian court also rejected a plea by Mr. Homm to be transferred to a civilian hospital. Mr. Homm, who holds undergraduate and graduate degrees from Harvard, has been held in jails in Florence and Pisa since his arrest in March at the Uffizi Gallery in Florence, where he planned to rendezvous with family members. Mr. Homm does not face any charges in Germany and would have been safe from extradition if he had remained there. Advertisement While denying he has committed any crimes, Mr. Homm often seems to revel in his own notoriety. While in hiding, he published a book, “Rogue Financier: The Adventures of an Estranged Capitalist,” in which he recalled, with some regret, his exploits as a predatory investor who shook up the staid world of German industry in the 1990s. Mr. Homm later became part owner of Borussia Dortmund, one of the country’s top soccer teams. Mr. Homm cultivated a flamboyant public persona in Germany, appearing on talk shows chomping his trademark Cuban cigar, before he abruptly dropped from view in 2007 amid the collapse of the portfolio of hedge funds he founded, Absolute Capital Management Holdings. After years spent mostly in Colombia, according to Mr. Homm’s account, he reappeared last year, promoting his book in a series of clandestine interviews. Since 2011, Mr. Homm has been the target of a civil suit by the Securities and Exchange Commission, which accused him of manipulating stock prices by buying and selling thinly traded shares between entities he controlled. The criminal charges, filed shortly before Mr. Homm’s arrest last year, are based on the same circumstances. The companies whose shares were traded were based in the United States. According to the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Mr. Homm earned commissions as a result of trades between the hedge fund and a Los Angeles broker in which he owned a stake. The trades inflated the prices of penny stocks and made Absolute Capital Management look more valuable than it was, the F.B.I. said in a statement. Mr. Homm and people he worked with are accused of earning $53 million through the scheme. Mr. Homm faces charges of conspiracy to commit wire fraud, wire fraud, conspiracy to commit securities fraud and securities fraud. The German magazine Stern reported that an Italian doctor, Giuseppe Meco, described as a leading neurologist, testified before the Italian high court in December that, while Mr. Homm is suffering from multiple sclerosis, he is fit enough to withstand incarceration. Mr. Handzlik, Mr. Homm’s lawyer, disagreed, saying in a telephone interview that Mr. Homm would effectively be exposed to life imprisonment in the United States, a much harsher penalty than would be likely on similar charges in Italy. Mr. Handzlik said that Mr. Homm’s lawyers in Italy would also cite humanitarian grounds in arguing for leniency. A version of this article appears in print on January 12, 2014, on page A8 of the New York edition with the headline: For Financier, A Final Try To Avoid U.S. Charges. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Foreign   Show Banned, French Comedian Has New One. Advertisement Advertisement By REUTERSJAN. 12, 2014 PARIS — A French comedian said Saturday that he had dropped a show banned for its anti-Semitic language and was planning one that would cause no objections. On Friday, France’s highest administrative court upheld a ban on a show by the comedian, Dieudonné M’Bala M’Bala, in the central city of Tours, days after it was also banned in the western city of Nantes. Mr. M’Bala M’Bala said in a statement that his lawyers would continue to defend the banned show in court, and that his new show, about Africa, would have none of the language that the courts found objectionable. “We live in a democratic country and I have to comply with the laws, despite the blatant political interference,” he said. “As a comedian, I have pushed the debate to the very edge of laughter.” Mr. M’Bala M’Bala, 46, has been repeatedly fined for hate speech, and the local authorities in several towns have banned his shows as a threat to public order. Advertisement Interior Minister Manuel Valls has urged local authorities to take a hard line in determining whether to ban the show. Mr. M’Bala M’Bala had been scheduled to perform in the city of Orleans on Saturday, but the show was canceled by a local court after a request by the mayor. Jacques Verdier, one of Mr. M’Bala M’Bala’s lawyers, told the television channel iTele that the new show would not run afoul of the courts. “Let him work now,” he said. Mr. M’Bala M’Bala’s lawyers have repeatedly said the bans infringed his right to freedom of speech. Critics say the comedian’s trademark downward straight-arm gesture is a Nazi salute in reverse. Mr. M’Bala M’Bala counters that it is meant to be anti-Zionist and anti-establishment, but not anti-Semitic. “I am not a Nazi, I am not anti-Semitic,” he said Saturday. Originally active with left-wing, antiracist groups, Mr. M’Bala M’Bala began openly criticizing Jews and Israel in 2002 and ran in European elections two years later for a pro-Palestinian party. The founder of the French far-right National Front, Jean-Marie Le Pen, has said he is the godfather of one of Mr. M’Bala M’Bala’s children, but his daughter Marine Le Pen, who now runs the party, has kept her distance from the comedian. Elie Semoun, a Jewish comedian with whom Mr. M’Bala M’Bala formed a popular comic duo in the mid-1990s, said he did not understand the turn his old friend had taken. “We worked together for 15 years,” Mr. Semoun said in a short act on French television on Saturday. “How did you support me for so long?” Advertisement “When Dieudo and I started out together, we were the very symbol of antiracism, to the point that I forgot that I was black and he was Jewish,” Mr. Semoun said. “Too bad, I loved being black.” A version of this article appears in print on January 12, 2014, on page A10 of the New York edition with the headline: Show Banned, French Comedian Has New One. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Movies   Steve McQueen & Bianca Stigter. A talk with the the director Steve McQueen and his partner Bianca Stigter.          
Society   Alexandra Parsons and Mark Andrews IV. Advertisement Advertisement JAN. 12, 2014 Alexandra Geddes Parsons, a daughter of Kathryn M. Parsons and J. Geddes Parsons of Hobe Sound, Fla., was married Saturday evening to Mark Edwin Andrews IV, the son of Elizabeth Quay Andrews and Mr. Andrews III of New York. The Rev. Matthew Heyd, an Episcopal priest, performed the ceremony at the Church of the Heavenly Rest in New York, where he is the rector. Mrs. Andrews, 24, is a sales associate in New York at Monograms Off Madison, which sells made-to-order gifts. She graduated from Hobart and William Smith Colleges in Geneva, N.Y. The bride’s father, who works in Hobe Sound and Providence, R.I., is a managing partner in Parsons Capital Management, an investment advisory firm. Her mother is a trustee of the Florence Griswold Museum in Old Lyme, Conn. Mr. Andrews, 31, works in New York, where he is a partner in Mast Capital Partners, a financing firm focusing on the alcohol beverage industry, which he founded with his father. The groom graduated from Harvard. The groom’s father is also the founder and chairman of Castle Brands, a producer and marketer of alcoholic beverages, in New York. He is a life trustee of NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital. A version of this article appears in print on January 12, 2014, on page ST13 of the New York edition with the headline: Alexandra Parsons, Mark Andrews IV. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Sports   Chelsea Leads Premier League in England. Advertisement Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSJAN. 12, 2014 Chelsea moved to the top of England’s Premier League standings with a 2-0 victory at Hull. Manchester United beat visiting Swansea, 2-0, to end a three-game losing streak. ■ Host Atlético Madrid and Barcelona, the co-leaders in Spain’s top league, drew, 0-0, in their first league meeting of the season. A version of this brief appears in print on January 12, 2014, on page SP9 of the New York edition with the headline: Chelsea Leads in England. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Travel   52 Places to Go in 2014. Advertisement Advertisement Witness a city in transformation, glimpse exotic animals, explore the past and enjoy that beach before the crowds. UPDATED September 5, 2014 A place to meditate on freedom, and the creative life that followed. When Nelson Mandela was incarcerated at Robben Island prison, he found inspiration in Cape Town. “We often looked across Table Bay at the magnificent silhouette of Table Mountain,” he said in a speech. “To us on Robben Island, Table Mountain was a beacon of hope. It represented the mainland to which we knew we would one day return.” Cape Town’s importance to Mandela, who made his first address there as a free man, will doubtless draw many visitors in the wake of his death. The country has transformed itself since Mandela’s imprisonment, but there’s still much to be done. Many in Cape Town have been grappling with that challenge, including its creative class, which has been examining whether inspired design can solve some of the issues stemming from years of inequality. The city formally takes up that issue this year during its turn as World Design Capital. Cape Town is celebrating design in all its forms, putting on fashion shows by students and established designers alike, hosting architecture open houses, welcoming the public into artists’ studios and folding the annual visual arts spectacular Design Indaba conference, which took place in February, into the design capital program. Also part of the lineup are locals seeking to rejuvenate impoverished black-majority townships: The Maboneng Lalela Project turns township homes into galleries and performance spaces; Foodpods constructs sustainable farms, giving residents access to healthy produce; and the Langa Quarter project seeks to make the precinct a cultural tourism destination. Cape Town is again reinventing itself, and the world is invited to its renaissance. Facebook Participate The rebirth of a quake-ravaged city. Three years after two large earthquakes devastated central Christchurch, the city is experiencing a rebirth with creativity and wit — thanks to the ingenuity of its hardy residents — and is welcoming tourists back again. Though much of the central city has yet to be rebuilt, entrepreneurs and volunteers are finding surprising ways to make temporary use of empty lots and bring life back to the downtown. The Gap Filler program, begun a couple of months after the first quake in September 2010 and expanded after a more destructive second quake in February 2011, has created a dance floor with coin-operated music and lights and even a nine-hole mini-golf course in vacant lots across the city. The Greening the Rubble campaign has since the 2010 quake been planting temporary gardens on the sites of demolished buildings. To replace the badly damaged 19th-century ChristChurch Cathedral, a magnificent transitional church by the Japanese architect Shigeru Ban opened in 2013 with sturdy cardboard tubes for the roof. Businesses are also trickling back downtown. One bar, built inside shipping containers, has a name that encapsulates the spirit of the entire city: Revival. Facebook Participate A glorious new preserve for the public. One hundred and thirty miles north of San Francisco, the moody bluffs of the Mendocino Coast have long been a spectacular place from which to observe marine life: passing humpback whales, sun-happy sea lions, foamy waves strewn with kelp. The incorporation of the Point Arena-Stornetta Public Lands — nearly 1,300 acres — gives hikers new access to a contiguous 12-mile stretch of coastline and fields of wildflowers, cypress forests and cliff areas (some overlooking dramatic blowholes, pinnacles and sea caves), much of it previously off-limits to the public. And Congressional proposals to include the north coast lands as part of the California Coastal National Monument have passed, which means better protection and more funds for maintenance; plans also exist to extend the California Coastal Trail through the new preserve. Facebook Participate On a rugged shore, Europe at its best. What if you could combine the rugged beauty you’d find on Croatia’s Dalmatian Coast with the ruins of an undiscovered Turkey or Greece, all wrapped in the easygoing nature characteristic of rural Italy — at a fraction of the cost? Turns out you can, on the coast of Albania. The roughly Maryland-size country, between Greece and Montenegro, sits about 45 miles east of Italy on the eastern shores of the Adriatic and has limestone-ringed beaches, ancient ruins like Butrint and waterfront inns where you can stay for less than $50 a night. Rampant development threatened to turn it all to concrete in the years after Communism, but a new government took office in 2013 on promises of keeping the coast authentic. Head to villages like Qeparo, within sight of Corfu, where you can kayak past Cold War submarine tunnels, swim by abandoned forts and watch the tide rise during a dinner of fresh fish at an inn called the Riviera. This is Europe when it was fresh and cheap. Facebook Participate Downtown? Really? Yes, thanks to a thriving food scene. Gone is the musty, lifeless, only-open-for-Kings-hockey-games reputation of downtown Los Angeles. While the museums in this corner of the city are thriving (the Los Angeles Museum of Contemporary Art is nearby), the growing dynamism of downtown is the food scene. Most notable is the Grand Central Market, an arcade of over 30 of the best food vendors in the city. Originally built in 1917, the market has been redone in the past year, attracting popular purveyors like G&B Coffee and, soon, Belcampo Meat Co. Just down the street is Alma, which was named the best new restaurant in the country by Bon Appétit magazine. And where there is good food there is good shopping. Stores have added cachet to the neighborhood; an outlet of the fashion label Acne Studios opened in December, and Aesop, a skin-care specialist, in May. Diners and shoppers alike also have a hip place to stay: An Ace Hotel opened early this year. Facebook Participate Africa’s latest conservation success story is a boon for travelers. Namibia’s communal conservancy movement, which pairs sustainable tourism with rural community outreach, has been a much-heralded success: In 2013, the country’s 79 conservancies received the prestigious Gift to the Earth Award from the World Wildlife Fund, and the stunning Namib Sand Sea Desert joined Unesco’s World Heritage list. Options abound for travelers who want to help the effort, including the Desert Rhino Camp, which Wilderness Safaris runs in partnership with the Save the Rhino Trust; the camp directly supports the conservancy, which has reversed dwindling rhino populations. Wilderness Safaris also plans to open the Hoanib Skeleton Coast Camp, on the Hoanib River in the north. And Namibia’s Tourism Board introduced three self-drive routes this year to point visitors toward less-visited parts of the country. Facebook Participate Epic biodiversity, and a newly renovated railway to get you there. Ecuador is famed as the home of the Galápagos, the beloved islands off the coast that feature mind-boggling wildlife — but the mainland is no slouch either. One of the most biodiverse countries in the world, Ecuador has over 1,600 species of birds, 4,000 kinds of orchids, one of the largest condor shelters on the planet — and one-fifth of the country (including the Galápagos) is protected. And there is a new way to see a good chunk of it: the recently refurbished Tren Crucero. The luxury vintage train starts in Quito (the first city ever to be declared a World Heritage site by Unesco) and travels through the Andes, over snow-capped mountains, past volcanoes, around a harrowing turn called the Devil’s Nose and through the countryside until arriving in the bustling city of Guayaquil. The four-day trip includes an excursion to Cotopaxi National Park — a place where you might see deer, wolves, bears or one of those condors. Facebook Participate Now open: One of the world’s largest caves. Son Doong Cave in the Quang Binh province of central Vietnam is one of the world’s largest caves and is now, for the first time, accessible to tourists, thanks to the tour operator Oxalis. Huge shafts of light penetrate its vast caverns, allowing forests of 100-foot-tall trees to thrive in spaces big enough to accommodate 40-story skyscrapers. Colossal 260-foot stalactites are also present. Monkeys, hornbills and flying foxes have all been spotted in this surreal habitat, first fully explored in 2009. While trips into Son Doong are limited in number (only 220 permits for the year) and to visitors with deep pockets (over $6,000 per trip), the nearby and more affordable Tu Lan Cave is also now open to adventurous travelers. Facebook Participate For Australian panache, go west. Perth, the capital of western Australia, has long been feted for its beaches, laid-back vibe and Aboriginal heritage, but lately Australia’s fourth-largest city is exhibiting the signs of a trendy transformation. Regional wine lists? Check. Modish new restaurants in repurposed spaces like stables (the Stables Bar), cottages (the Old Crow) or a printing press building (the Print Hall)? Check. International celebrity chefs including Jamie Oliver, whose Italian spot Jamie’s Italian recently opened? Up-and-coming neighborhoods like Mount Lawley and Northbridge, chockablock with cafes and vintage shops? Check and check. Transformation is evident on a larger scale, too: The Riverside project is infusing the eastern side of the city with parks, shops and housing plazas, while expansion of the new Crown Perth complex includes hotels — Crown Metropol and Crown Promenade — and posh restaurants like Nobu and La Vie Champagne Lounge. Now that first- and business-class lounges have opened at Los Angeles International Airport this year, the national airline Qantas makes it easy to get Down Under in style. Facebook Participate First-class architecture in the Netherlands’ second city. Post-World War II reconstruction has changed the face of one of Europe’s largest ports, where striking, cubed architecture gives shape to the most modern skyline in the country. But it’s not done yet. This is a banner year for ribbon cuttings to celebrate both new and reconfigured space: An overhaul of Rotterdam Centraal  train station in March has already unveiled a new shop-lined pedestrian passageway and the city’s first Starbucks. The renovated Kunsthal museum reopened in February. François Geurds, chef of the two-Michelin-starred restaurant FG, opened another restaurant in January. Come December, the massive arch of the Markthal, whose interior displays 3-D food photographs, becomes the country’s first indoor food hall. Need a launching pad? Check into a brand-new gem: the Rem Koolhaas-designed nhow hotel. Facebook Participate Urban and outdoor pursuits in one (reasonably) compact package. The traveler who wants to do it all should consider Taiwan. This island, roughly the size of the Netherlands, has an easy-to-navigate public transport network that links a cosmopolitan capital with a bounty of natural and man-made wonders. Taipei, whose robust art scene recently earned its selection as the World Design Capital for 2016, has more places to lay your head: A boutique hotel from the homegrown bookstore chain Eslite will join the recent arrivals Mandarin Oriental, Le Meridien and W. All of these should be a convenient base from which to do some sightseeing on 17 bike trails along the shores of Taipei’s many rivers and inlets or to take a foray into the city’s vibrant street food scene with a nightcap at the reservations-only bespoke bar Alchemy, which opened in 2012 to much acclaim. Four hours south by high-speed rail and bus, 70-square-mile Kenting National Park is home to wetlands, white sands, fishing villages and, starting this year, a ferry point for the deep sea fishing and diving paradise of Orchid Island. Up north in Keelung, a new National Museum of Marine Science and Technology has opened, part of a revitalization project at Badouzi Harbor, which is linked to nearby headlands by color-coded walking routes. And it all becomes cheaper to get to later this year, with the launch of budget carriers from China Airlines and TransAsia Airways. Facebook Participate An infusion of hip night life wakes up a humdrum city. Frankfurt, long considered strictly a financial capital and major travel hub, used to land on the culturati map once a year, during its annual book fair. A recent boom of restaurants and clubs, though, makes the case for permanent placement. Leading the city’s transformation is its fast-evolving red light district, where spots like Maxie Eisen, a deli-style cafe by day and a speakeasy-inspired bar by night, offer a sexiness that isn’t unseemly. In the city center, a buzzy pan-Asian restaurant called Moriki was just opened by the Berlin-based chef Duc Ngo with a menu that includes envelope-pushing courses like sushi pizza; and the new sleek Lamoraga, a modern Spanish restaurant, is pulling in the shopping crowds for lunch. By the end of next year, the developer Ardi Goldman plans to reinvent and reopen the famed King Kamehameha Club, which had its original heyday in the 1990s and 2000s. And growth extends to the art world: The 32,000-square-foot underground extension at the Städel Museum earned accolades from around the globe when it opened last year. Facebook Participate An ambitious art scene heads toward the international stage. Building on a strong historical legacy (Addis boasts one of East Africa’s oldest art schools) are a host of events scheduled for 2014: a photography festival, two film festivals and a jazz and world music festival. Thanks to the city’s diverse art institutions and galleries, including the artist-in-residence village Zoma Contemporary Art Center and the Asni Gallery (really more an art collective than a gallery), there is an art opening at least once a week. Even the local Sheraton puts on “Art of Ethiopia,” an annual show of new talent. But it’s the National Museum that, in May and June, hosted this year’s blockbuster exhibit, “Ras Tafari: The Majesty and the Movement,” devoted to Emperor Haile Selassie I and Rastafarianism. Facebook Participate A world-class World Cup getaway. Now that the World Cup is over, escape to Fernando de Noronha, a 21-island archipelago about 330 miles off the coast of one of the host cities, Recife. Here you’ll find 250-foot-high black cliffs muscling against peach-sand beaches, Portuguese hilltop forts and blue coves where humpbacks and spinner dolphins linger. Only one of the islands, Noronha, is inhabited, and the entire chain is protected as a park with just 246 visitors allowed per day. Regulations have kept Noronha relaxed, with only small hotels and roads rough enough to make dune buggies the rental cars of choice. Hike along cliffs to gorgeous beaches like Sancho, dive with sea turtles or climb Morro do Pico, a 1,059-foot-high volcanic pinnacle. Facebook Participate Leather jackets and skinny jeans join cowboy boots. Country music lovers have long made the pilgrimage to Nashville, but now the city has fast gained cachet among rock fans and foodies. The city’s vibrant scene is home to the Black Keys, Kings of Leon, Jeff the Brotherhood and Diarrhea Planet, who all play in town occasionally. And a youthquake is transforming scruffy neighborhoods like 12South and East Nashville into hipster hubs. New hangouts include Pinewood Social, a bar, restaurant, bowling alley and karaoke joint, and the 404, a restaurant and boutique hotel in a former auto garage. Add to that a thriving culinary scene, exemplified by the Music City Eats Festival, back for a second year in September. And Nashville’s old standbys — like the honky-tonk Tootsie’s Orchid Lounge and the venerable Ryman — are as fun as ever. Facebook Participate New reasons to play, and watch players, in Scotland’s yards. Riddled with lochs and crested by moody Highlands, Scotland adds to its already considerable outdoorsy appeal this year. In April, the John Muir Way, named for the conservationist originally from Scotland, expanded to 134 miles from 45 miles, newly spanning the farmland and forests of the country’s midsection. Organizers estimate it will take eight to 12 days on foot or four to six by bike to complete the coast-to-coast route running from Muir’s boyhood hometown Dunbar west to the Loch Lomond area. The attractions extend beyond amateur workouts. This summer, Glasgow staged the 2014 Commonwealth Games, Olympic-style competitions for Britain and the former British colonies, and in September Gleneagles resort in the Highlands will host the Ryder Cup golf competition. Sports and hospitality meet at Cromlix House Hotel, a 15-room resort that the tennis champion and local hero Andy Murray opened earlier this year in a Victorian mansion in Dunblane. Facebook Participate An oil boom town gets its cultural legs. Flush with oil money, Calgary has morphed from ho-hum city on the prairie into a cultural hub, with offerings far beyond the Stampede, the annual rodeo and festival. Locals stroll over the tubular Peace Bridge, designed by Santiago Calatrava, opened in 2012. Public art is part of life; in 2013 Jaume Plensa completed Wonderland, a 39-foot-tall steel mesh head installed in front of the new skyline-transforming Norman Foster-designed Bow Tower. They join beloved cultural institutions like the One Yellow Rabbit Performance Theater, whose dancer and choreographer Denise Clarke was in December named to the Order of Canada, one of the country’s highest honors. Facebook Participate Sand and surf, now a (low-cost) hop from Osaka. The yen is the weakest it’s been against the dollar in years, putting Japan more within reach in 2014. For low prices coupled with laid-back attitudes, look way south to the island of Ishigaki, 250 miles south of Okinawa Island and far from the bustle of Tokyo. The 85-square-mile island, largely undiscovered, is home to sunburned surfers, sandy beaches and beautiful coral reefs. And it’s never been easier to reach: A new airport opened here in March 2013, and Japan’s new low-cost carrier, Peach, just began service from Osaka. Facebook Participate A pristine slice of biodiversity is home to a new luxury eco-resort. Set between Mount Kenya and the Great Rift Valley, the Laikipia Plateau teems with wildlife: elephants, leopards, endangered rhinos and one of the highest concentrations of zebras on the continent. Now the area has also become a conservation success story, sustained and protected through an unusual mix of public and private partnerships and a network of environmentally minded ranchers. With the 2013 opening of Segera, a resort owned by Jochen Zeitz, a German-born executive, there is also a new spot to admire its pristine landscapes. The 50,000-acre property includes an enviable collection of contemporary African art, an organic and solar-powered farm and a wine collection focusing on African labels. And more sustainable travel may be on the horizon: A new national park on the area’s southwestern border has been proposed by the government. Facebook Participate A volcano, a temple, a shrine and now a place to stay. This central Javan sultanate draws crowds for its proximity to bewitching attractions: the monumental, wedding cake-esque Buddhist temple Borobudur, the soft-serve-ice-cream-shaped Hindu shrines of Prambanan, and pre-sunrise hikes to summit Indonesia’s friskiest volcano, Mount Merapi (which most recently erupted in 2013). But finding a decent room has never been easy, until now. Thanks to tax breaks for hotel development, 20 new starred hotels, to complement the city’s existing 30, will open through 2015. Among them are Zest Hotel (a Swiss-Belhotel brand) at the end of 2014 and, according to a director of the Tourism Promotion Agency of Yogyakarta, three new properties from Accor, whose brands include Sofitel and ibis. Facebook Participate A ski area spruces up with new terrain, lodging and an entire base village. For decades Northstar-at-Tahoe, on the north end of Lake Tahoe, was a mostly overlooked ski hill. Since 2004, however, more than $1 billion has poured into the resort. Though weather in the region has been fickle so far this season, the improvements are impressive. And they aren’t limited to the base village that has risen at the renamed Northstar, centered around a huge ice rink ringed by couches and fire pits. The Ritz-Carlton, Lake Tahoe opened a few years ago, and Vail Resorts, since buying the ski resort in late 2010, has built an on-mountain day lodge, added more terrain and installed the new Promised Land Express lift on the resort’s Backside. Tahoe is resurgent, as resorts from Squaw Valley to Homewood undertake improvements with an eye toward bidding for the 2026 Winter Olympics. In the next few years expect to see everything from the Cal Neva Resort, once owned by Frank Sinatra, open after a big renovation, to a South Lake Tahoe with new waterfront hotels. Facebook Participate A photogenic (and historic) ale trail. The sprawling northern county of Yorkshire is becoming a big destination for beer lovers, thanks to a recently published guidebook called “Great Yorkshire Beer” and a renewed interest in historic breweries like Samuel Smith (founded in 1758) and Timothy Taylor (from 1858). Spend an evening crawling through the Fat Cat, the Kelham Island Tavern and other award-winning pubs in Sheffield — recently called Britain’s best beer city by the connoisseur Adrian Tierney-Jones — then travel to Leeds, whose compact center is home to the Victoria Hotel, the Cross Keys and other public houses that pull pints on traditional hand pumps. A final stay in the photogenic city of York offers a Tudor-style pub at the end of every cobbled lane, as well as modern beer temples like York Tap, Pivni and the House of Trembling Madness. Facebook Participate Reborn, relentless and still over the top. Five years ago, one of the planet’s most ambitious cities appeared to be dying. Crushed with debt, Dubai found its megaprojects and skyscrapers scuttled or scrapped. The city went from juggernaut to joke. But now, it’s back. Economically surging, Dubai has won its bid to host World Expo 2020 and has unveiled its Tourism Vision, also for 2020, a plan to attract 20 million tourists — double the current crowd. Last October witnessed the first passenger terminal at Dubai World Central Al Maktoum International Airport, and travelers will discover colossal new hotels like the 555-room Conrad Dubai and the 77-story JW Marriott Marquis Dubai, which Guinness World Records recognizes as the tallest hotel in the world. This year, a new tram system will be inaugurated, along with some theme parks, including the first phase of Dubai Adventure Studios, the first phase of IMG Worlds of Adventure, and Holy Quran Park (devoted to the Islamic holy book). Facebook Participate New saints, a new(ish) pope and newly restored treasures beckon. Pope Francis, who has nearly 4.8 million followers on Twitter and routinely makes headlines for doing things like inviting atheists to join the cause for peace in his Christmas message, is widely viewed as reinvigorating the scandal-plagued, conservative-leaning Roman Catholic Church. (Just ask Time magazine, which last December named him the 2013 Person of the Year.) The first South American pope is so popular that the Vatican estimated that nearly a million visitors came in April for Holy Week and the canonization of John XXIII and John Paul II. Services commemorating the new saints will continue throughout the year. The faithful can also enjoy the fruits of restorations that have taken years, like that of Bernini’s colonnade in St. Peter’s Square and the reopening of the Via Triumphalis necropolis, a vast ancient Roman cemetery first uncovered in the 1950s. And pilgrims can stay up-to-date on news and events, including restorations and exhibitions, thanks to the Pope’s new mobile app. Facebook Participate South American beach towns, before they go upscale. Around glamorous Punta del Este and boho-chic José Ignacio, there’s no deficiency of boutique hotels, expat art galleries and exclusive waterfront brasseries. But farther east along the Uruguayan Riviera, a relatively untrodden stretch of Atlantic coast tucked between Argentina and Brazil, sun, sand and simplicity remain the draw — for now. In the Rocha region, villages like Cabo Polonio, La Pedrera, San Antonio and Punta del Diablo are just starting to attract serious international attention, bringing a sprinkling of first-rate accommodation — like Brisas, a clifftop 14-room inn restored by an Argentine tech mogul — without compromising the area’s natural charms: miles of undeveloped beach, rolling pastures and a culture where gaucho cowboys and fishermen with wooden boats aren’t just props. Facebook Participate A cultural capital springs to life. Chennai, in the state of Tamil Nadu (and formerly known as Madras), was long considered the gateway to popular South Indian tourist destinations like Kerala but was overlooked as an attraction itself. It is, however, a national cultural capital and home to several dance and music schools like Kalakshetra for dance and the Music Academy for Carnatic South Indian music, which both regularly hold performances around town. There are also historic sites aplenty, including the Kapaleeswarar Temple, built in the name of the Hindu god Shiva. Fresh buzz makes this city especially enticing: Several major hotels including the Park Hyatt have recently opened, and there is a slew of new and trendy clubs, boutiques and restaurants, including Ottimo for excellent pizzas. Facebook Participate An African luxury hot spot that’s become easier to get to. This archipelago of 115 islands in the Indian Ocean now has one of the world’s most expensive hotels. The listed price for a villa at the North Island resort, on a private island where the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge stayed during their honeymoon, ranges from 2,582 to 4,079 euros (about $3,670 to $5,800) per night; the Doubletree by Hilton Seychelles, which opened last year is, thankfully, more affordable. The appeal goes beyond pampering and powdery beaches: The Seychelles is also home to some 100,000 giant Aldabra tortoises that live on a coral atoll that is a Unesco World Heritage site. Air Seychelles recently signed code-share agreements with Air Berlin, Cathay Pacific Airways and other airlines, making these islands about 1,000 miles off the east coast of Africa more accessible. Facebook Participate A Phuket-like hideaway, but still unspoiled. The southern Thailand town of Krabi lies just a 45-minute boat ride across the Andaman Sea from Phuket. But you can spare yourself the trip to Phuket — plenty of riches lie here, and you don’t have to fight the crowds to enjoy them. Krabi sits next to the Mu Koh Lanta National Park, a prime spot for hiking, rock climbing and elephant trekking. If you do get restless, there are about 130 pristine islands nearby that are ripe for exploration and virtually undeveloped save for a few ancient monasteries. And Krabi, which used to have few options for accommodations and was hard to get to, is now more tourist-friendly. A number of hotels have opened in recent years, including Phulay Bay, a Ritz-Carlton property. A marina, Port Takola, is in the works and will be home to restaurants, night life and shopping, and a new terminal that has opened at Krabi Airport means that there are more flights to and from this gem. Facebook Participate Ditch those poles. Art and bike trails await. This ski town has a big development off-piste: The long-awaited reinvented Aspen Art Museum opened its doors this summer. The 33,000-square-foot space, designed by the Japanese architect Shigeru Ban, is meant to reflect the mountain experience. Visitors first take a lift to the roof and take in the view from the sculpture garden before descending to tour the galleries. There is also plenty of news for outdoor types this year, too, with new mountain biking trails planned throughout Aspen and Snowmass, a new mountain skills center and expanded lift-serviced biking. Facebook Participate Natural wonders are in danger. Go see them before it’s too late. The Icelandic government has spent decades protecting its glaciers, pools, ponds, lakes, marshes and permafrost mounds in the Thjorsarver Wetlands, part of the central highlands, which constitute some 40 percent of the entire country, mostly in the interior. But last year, the government announced plans to revoke those protections, allowing for the construction of hydropower plants (instead of glaciers and free-flowing rivers, imagine man-made reservoirs, dams, paved roads and power lines). “If they get into this area, there will be no way to stop them from destroying the wetlands completely,” said Arni Finnsson, the chairman of the Iceland Nature Conservation Association. If you ever want to see Iceland in all of its famously raw natural beauty, go now. Facebook Participate Soundscapes and culture shine in northern Sweden. A hotbed of hardcore and heavy metal music through the 1990s, this northern city has welcomed all genres during its tenure as a European Capital of Culture this year. Music has taken center stage at outdoor opera performances, a crowdsourced music festival and an orchestral tribute to the local hardcore band Refused. Visual arts focused on the culture of indigenous Sami people are on exhibit at Bildmuseet, the city’s contemporary arts museum that reopened in 2012 in a glass-and-wood building designed by Henning Larsen Architects. And it’s all easier to reach thanks to a new higher-speed rail connection from Stockholm. Facebook Participate Skip smog-choked cities — and face masks — and head out to China’s wild frontier. With pollution skyrocketing in China’s showcase cities, visitors to the country are increasingly seeking out greener pastures to explore. Set deep in the tropics of southern Yunnan province, Xishuangbanna is about as lush as you can get — the region boasts the richest biodiversity in China, including some of the country’s last wild elephants. In February 2013, the area went upscale with its first five-star hotel — the Anantara Xishuangbanna Resort & Spa, which organizes tea-leaf picking trips in mountainside plantations. More action-oriented experiences are possible, as well, such as the tour group WildChina’s jungle biking trips or treks along the caravan route plied by tea traders centuries ago. Facebook Participate A mountain makeover from overlooked to opulent. Andermatt has long been a quiet town of Alpine farmers and bargain-seeking skiers. But the former Swiss Army outpost began its transformation into a bona fide ski destination with the opening last December of the Chedi Andermatt. The 104-room resort, housed in a modernized chalet with a Japanese restaurant among several dining options, indoor and outdoor pools and a 10-treatment-room spa, is just the first phase of a big new development of apartment buildings, homes, five more hotels and a golf course in the coming years over 321 acres. The pedestrian village will offer skiers access by gondola to the nearly 9,800-foot Gemsstock Mountain, with future lifts to the larger nearby ski area of Sedrun planned to open in 2015. Facebook Participate In the land of cars, cycling (and culture) get the limelight. An urban cycling model has arrived in Indianapolis: the new $63 million, eight-mile bike-friendly Indy Cultural Trail. The path connects five downtown neighborhoods, including arty Fountain Square, to top downtown sites, including the Capitol Building, City Market and White River State Park, a 250-acre park that hosts the Indianapolis Zoo and six more major attractions. Bicycles can be rented along the paved and lighted pathway, allowing riders to cruise past public art, including a motion-activated fireflylike swarm of LED lights. City officials say that planners from Cologne, Germany, to Portland, Ore., have come to see how the city most famous for a 500-mile car race managed to swap auto for bike lanes and still keep everything rolling smoothly. Facebook Participate River cruising swells on the Danube of Asia. Like the Danube in Europe, the Mekong River in Southeast Asia has become a vital river cruising course, with a variety of small-ship itineraries linking Vietnam and Cambodia. Late last year, Pandaw River Expeditions upgraded two of its ships, the Mekong Pandaw and Tonle Pandaw, enlarging public spaces, adding gyms and stocking cabins with iPads. In 2012, the company launched the 32-guest Angkor Pandaw, offering three- to seven-night itineraries, while Avalon Waterways set the 32-passenger Avalon Angkor sailing between Ho Chi Minh City and Siem Reap over seven nights. In September, Aqua Expeditions will introduce the 20-suite Aqua Mekong, offering guide-led shore excursions to temples, villages and wildlife-rich areas via skiffs. Facebook Participate Out of an economic crisis, a city surges back. Vibrancy and innovation can bloom even in hard times. Exhibit A is Greece’s ancient capital, which was hit hard by the global economic crisis and yet is seeing change at sites old and new. First the old: At the Acropolis, the famous Caryatids statues continue to get a restoration in 2014. And the new: The National Museum of Contemporary Art will soon open in a former brewery complex. Neighborhoods have also seen a resurgence, including the quickly gentrifying Monastiraki and the still gritty Kerameikos-Metaxourgeio; the latter will get a cultural lift in 2015 from the biannual ReMap art event. Travelers will have a new lodging option by the end of the year, when a revived Emporikon Hotel opens on Aiolou, a street that is also home to a host of new dining spots. Facebook Participate A scenic, low-key destination on the verge of discovery. Most vacationers to La Republica hole up in the all-inclusives north and east, overlooking the rarely traveled southwest. The port town of Barahona is the gateway to the cactus-strewn region’s riches, like the hauntingly beautiful Bahia de las Aguilas beach and the eight climate zones at the geological depression Hoyo de Pelempito, both blissfully devoid of people. But there are signs of the government’s vision to develop the area. The abandoned former Barcelo Bahoruco Beach Resort will partly open at the end of 2014, and two separate 300-room projects — near La Canoa and San Rafael Beach — are in the final stages of design approval. For now, you can experience the quiet life at the thatch-roofed Casa Bonita, or at Rancho Platon, which has a tree house raised between the palms. Facebook Participate Chasing the northern lights? This might be the year. There aren't many reasons to visit the frigid region surrounding the North Pole, but the darkest months, from September through March, offer the most stunning of them: northern lights, that colorful spectacle of solar particles entering our atmosphere. And there are some comfortable ways to see them, thanks to hotels offering northern lights safaris, including the newly opened Ion Luxury Adventure Hotel in Iceland and the Icehotel in Swedish Lapland (and actually within the Arctic Circle). Facebook Participate On the African coast, music thrives in a commercial capital. Tanzania may be best known for the snow-capped peaks of Mount Kilimanjaro and the game-packed plains of the Serengeti, but the real pulse of the country is found in its largest city, Dar es Salaam. An eclectic mix of music echoes through the beach clubs, open-air bars and nightclubs of this Indian Ocean coastal city. Old-school dance music competes with Swahili hip-hop and traditional drumming, all drawing from the city’s African, Indian and Arab influences. Add in the street food, the beaches and the fact that the year-old African low-cost carrier Fastjet uses Dar as its hub, and it’s easy to see that this commercial capital is more than a stopover on the way to Tanzania’s natural splendor. It is an African metropolis coming into its own. Facebook Participate A revitalized city center welcomes new museums and streetcars. Atlanta plans several ribbon cuttings in 2014, but the main event is the National Center for Civil and Human Rights, opened in June next to the Centennial Olympic Park and the Georgia Aquarium downtown. The 42,000-square-foot, environmentally friendly museum features permanent galleries devoted to domestic and international rights struggles and houses the Martin Luther King Jr. papers owned by Morehouse College. By November, visitors will be able to take the new Atlanta Streetcar on a 2.7-mile loop that will link the park to the Martin Luther King Jr. National Historic Site and other stops. Another parkside attraction, the 94,000-square-foot College Football Hall of Fame, is opening in time for fall kickoff of the N.C.A.A. season. Facebook Participate Skiing, soba and snow monkeys. For nearly a century, visitors have been lured to this ski destination, a 90-minute drive from Nagano, by affordability and a host of charms: fine powder, long slopes and charming cobblestone lanes lined with traditional ryokan inns, generations-old soba noodle shops and natural hot spring baths. But the recent arrival of stylish, foreigner-friendly restaurants, cafes and bars have infused the area with new energy, offering travelers just the right mix of old and new. Microbrews and excellent coffee are served at ski-in/ski-out Craft Room, while Tamon prepares innovative kaiseki cuisine using local ingredients. The lantern-hung rooms at Jon Nobi are popular among international skiers, as is its chic izakaya restaurant Himatsuri, inspired by the town’s fire festival, held annually on Jan. 15. The Asian operator Backyard Travel offers 10-day itineraries to explore Nozawa and nearby sights like a seventh-century temple and a refuge for the area’s famed snow monkeys. Facebook Participate Serbian wine? Time to take a sip. The Balkan Peninsula has a wine culture that dates back hundreds of years, but war and political unrest over the last century decimated Serbian vineyards. As recently as a decade ago, Serbia produced virtually no wine that met international standards. But progress has been swift. Recently, small producers have revived the Subotica-Horgos wine region near the northern border with Hungary. Here, the Palic Wine Route has been attracting domestic wine tourists who spend days sampling local cabernet sauvignon in wine cellars, sipping dry Trijumf white during dinner at Bosscaffe and unwinding in the Hotel Galleria‘s high-tech spa. Facebook Participate A museum’s entrance makes for something new in the state of Denmark. Even angst-ridden Prince Hamlet, literature’s most famous Dane, might be cheered by the new Maritime Museum of Denmark, which recently opened in his hometown Elsinore. Designed by the architectural firm Bjarke Ingels Group, the glassy structure is built into a U-shaped dry dock and filled with slanted floors and zigzag passageways that evoke ocean-rocked ships’ decks. Maritime relics — from torpedoes to Lego pirate ships — mix with electronic maps and films that explore the romance of the sea, shipboard existence and trade, both centuries ago and today. Interactive exhibits allow you to run your own trade company, navigate by the stars and ink a sailor’s tattoo. For additional watery wonders, head to Copenhagen’s new Blue Planet aquarium, billed as the largest in Northern Europe. Facebook Participate Haute cuisine comes to the lush landscapes of the Lake District. The British dining scene is expanding beyond London, and the chef Simon Rogan deserves much of the credit, having helped elevate the Lake District village of Cartmel into one of England’s most unlikely culinary destinations. His three restaurants in the medieval village — the Michelin two-starred L’Enclume, Rogan & Company and his most recent addition, the Pig & Whistle — have menus featuring whatever’s fresh on his nearby farm. Cartmel is also home to a celebrated farmers’ market, Cartmel Cheeses and the Cartmel Village shop, renowned for its sticky toffee pudding. What’s more, the village is a cozy base from which to explore the Lake District, once an inspiration to William Wordsworth and Beatrix Potter. Facebook Participate New peaks open up for alpine adventurers. This Himalayan republic is the mother lode of alpinism, home to eight of the world’s 10 highest summits (including Everest). So when a Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation subcommittee recommended last September that Nepal allow access to 165 new peaks in the Kanchenjunga massif this year — 13 of them above 23,000 feet — the world’s mountaineering community was aflutter. Some welcomed the announcement, while others dismissed it, saying the government had stretched the meaning of “peak” in a few cases to include subpeaks within mountains that were already accessible in order to rake in more in fees. Even so, the proposal was significant since it was the first such release in a decade. And though the government scaled back the scope of the original proposal, it did formally open 104 of the new peaks in May. Facebook Participate Feel like reminiscing? A city is awash in anniversaries. Vienna is home to some 450 balls each year, from traditional waltzes to the “seriously outlandish” Rosenball for the gay community, and this year is the 200th anniversary since the city’s ball culture took root. You could mark the occasion by attending one, but it wouldn’t be the only date to celebrate in the capital city this year. Visitors can pay homage at the Sigmund Freud Museum since it has been 75 years since the psychoanalyst’s death. The city is also commemorating the 100th anniversary of World War I with special exhibits and the European Peace Walk, a permanent route from Vienna to Trieste through five countries. There are also new art spaces, a new transportation hub, more direct flights from the United States and offbeat places to stay, like Urbanauts’ former storefronts or Chez Cliché’s themed apartments, with décor inspired by fictional hosts, such as Marie Therese, who loves Baroque furnishings and classical music. Facebook Participate Even a 1,200-year-old lost city has some new draws. If you’ve seen the temple complex of Angkor Wat in Cambodia, then the country’s lost city of Mahendraparvata, its majestic temples on Phnom Kulen and the stone animal carvings at the site of Srah Damrei (elephant pond) should be next on your list. About 30 miles from Siem Reap, Mahendraparvata predates Angkor Wat by about 350 years and was the birthplace of the Khmer Empire in A.D. 802. Although the city has been known about for several decades, researchers in 2013 discovered new temples and a network of roads and dikes that had been concealed under thick mountain vegetation. Facebook Participate Croatia’s architectural and musical gem lies inland. Forget Croatia’s beloved coast: The inland city Varazdin is one of the country’s most picturesque and well-preserved areas. One hour north of Zagreb, this small metropolis of 50,000 has an immaculate cobblestoned town center and is stocked with Baroque churches and palaces like the Draskovic. The theme continues with an annual Baroque music festival, but that’s where it ends. Other music-themed festivals and concerts are decidedly modern and change from year to year: One, the Radar Festival, for contemporary stars, has drawn names such as Bob Dylan and Carlos Santana, and various other festivals throughout the year such as Spancir Fest, celebrated from the end of August to September, attract artists and musicians from around Europe. Facebook Participate Reinventing a Florida city’s reputation. Once mocked for its thousands of green benches dotted with senior citizens, St. Petersburg is anything but stationary. With a redeveloped waterfront, a stunning Dali Museum, and sophisticated restaurants in place, the downtown energy is now heading up historic Central Avenue, thanks in part to the craft beer scene. Among the many recent arrivals, artsy Cycle Brewing features Fixie and Endo ales, while Green Bench Brewing Co., the name a nod to those erstwhile icons, invites winter escapees to its sunny taproom and beer garden. Refuel at the ambitious Rococo Steak, set in a renovated 1920s YWCA, then hit the Tap Room of the reinvented Hollander Hotel. Facebook Participate More flights and lodges in Central America’s eco-frontier. Twenty years ago, when Francis Ford Coppola opened Blancaneaux Lodge in western Belize, relatively few travelers had ventured into this small Central American country. Slowly they arrived, many of them curious to witness the scenery that had captivated the film director, which he described in an email as “completely remote, with a beautiful pristine river you could drink the water out of and the most star-studded night sky I had ever seen.” Since then, upscale rustic hotels have cropped up all over Belize — there’s El Secreto in Ambergris Caye, for example, and Belcampo, an eco-lodge and sustainable farm in the south that’s about to unveil a sophisticated redesign — adding to the lure of rain forests, Mayan ruins and coral reefs. It helps that Belize is easier to reach: Delta recently began nonstop flights from Los Angeles to Belize City, and regional carriers like Tropic Air have expanded their routes, connecting Belize to resorts like Cancún and making remote towns like San Ignacio more accessible. Facebook Participate What you’d expect (natural beauty) and not (world-class museum). This semisecret gem of the South Pacific, a three-hour flight from Sydney, is attracting visitors like never before. Thank infrastructural upgrades like a refurbished international airport, improved roads and bridges, and the arrival of high-profile properties like the new Hilton Noumea La Promenade Residences and the Sheraton New Caledonia Deva Resort & Spa. An island itinerary reads like a fantasy novel: snorkeling and diving in one of the world’s largest lagoons, an aquamarine stunner populated by thousands of coral and marine species and home to the world’s second largest reef (after the Great Barrier); horseback riding through verdant mountains and indigenous Kanak villages; kayaking by moonlight among the submerged forest of the Blue River Provincial Park. The cosmopolitan capital, Nouméa, has its own allures, like Le Roof, where you might spot dolphins diving in the distance while savoring the fresh oysters, and the Tjibaou Cultural Center, a Renzo Piano-designed museum housing one of the world’s largest collections of Pacific art. Facebook Participate Once a kitsch capital, now earning a reputation for food and sports. Known for its remarkable natural beauty and tourist kitsch, Niagara Falls is now evolving into a draw for those who love food as well as those who seek thrills. The Niagara Falls Culinary Institute opened a high-end restaurant, deli, patisserie and gelateria steps from the American Falls, transforming the area’s dining scene overnight. A gastro pub called the Griffon Pub, which features 50 beers on tap and creative New American dishes like gnocchi poutine, opened a few miles east of the falls last year. On the Canadian side, oenophiles can get a taste of the region’s growing wine scene just a short bike ride from the falls along the Niagara River Recreation Trail. Nondining attractions are plentiful, too. This year, Canadians have hosted two major War of 1812 bicentennial re-enactments in the area, and since May visitors have been able to see the falls from a new luxury catamaran. Tourism officials on the Canadian side appear poised to allow daredevils to zip line across or rappel down the Niagara Gorge later this year. Facebook Participate Here’s your chance to weigh in on our selections. Which destinations do you most want to visit? What did we miss? Want to know how we put our list together? Here are some answers to frequently asked questions. This year, we’ve also collected a roundup of major events happening in 2014, from food to art to music. Produced by Alicia DeSantis, Jessie DeWitt, Lexi Mainland, Sona Patel, Josh Robinson, Dan Saltzstein, James Thomas, Josh Williams, Nancy Donaldson and Margaret Cheatham Williams Because of an editing error, the cover article last Sunday about 52 places to go in 2014 misstated the name of a festival in Varazdin, Croatia. It is the Spancir Festival, not Spanor. The cover article on Jan. 12 about 52 places to go in 2014 contained several errors. The Thjorsarver Wetlands in Iceland are part of the central highlands, which constitute some 40 percent of Iceland. The wetlands themselves do not constitute 40 percent of the country. Two of the airlines scheduled to provide budget service to Taiwan are China Airlines, not China Airways, and TransAsia Airways, not TransAsia Air. The Commonwealth Games to be staged in Glasgow this summer are competitions for Britain, which includes England, and the former British colonies; the games are not for England and the former colonies. And Nepal is a republic, not a kingdom. An earlier version of this article described the damage suffered by a church in Christchurch, New Zealand, imprecisely. ChristChurch Cathedral was badly damaged in earthquakes in 2010 and 2011; it was not destroyed.
U.S.   Bonded by Geography, Divided by Politics. Residents in the twin ports of Duluth, Minn., and Superior, Wis., find their lives diverging, now that Minnesota is governed by Democrats, and Wisconsin by Republicans.          
Business   Stern-Mackenzie One-Round War. Advertisement It’s war. You size up your warriors — all three of them. There’s strongest A, next-strongest B, and weakest C. Your opponent has three different-strength warriors as well. Warriors will fight in pairs (each warrior fights just one fight), and whichever side wins the most contests is the victor. You know your opponent will present her warriors in descending order by strength, and you’re initially tempted to do the same, matching your strongest warrior with her strongest warrior, the next-strongest with next-strongest, and so on. But is there a better way? Our puzzle this week is by the award-winning mathematics writer Dana Mackenzie. It’s about gaining advantage in what appears to be a fair game, and its elegant simplicity hides a tough mathematical core that took him and colleague Howard Stern 30 years to crack (Dana Mackenzie tells the remarkable story in the bottom section of this post). We’ll simulate the affair with a deck of numbered cards. It’s — Stern-Mackenzie One-Round War The game requires three people, one of whom serves only as the dealer. The dealer has a deck of six cards numbered one through six. She shuffles the cards and then deals three cards to each player, making sure, as she deals the cards, to place them in order from highest to lowest (she can look at the cards as she’s dealing them without the players seeing their values). Cards are then put face-down into the middle of the table. Player 1 plays a card, without turning it over; then player 2 plays a card, without turning it over. Play continues in the same way until all the cards have been paired up. Only then do the players turn over all the cards, revealing who has won each battle (highest card in each pair wins). In what order should you play your cards? Bonus: How should you play your cards if you’re each dealt four cards? Seven? Super-Bonus (The one that takes 30 years to figure out): How should you play if you’re dealt N cards? Give it a try with Numberplay Inventor-in-Residence Gary Hewitt’s remarkable Stern-Mackenzie One-Round War gizmo. The story of Stern-Mackenzie One-Round War as told by Dana Mackenzie The saga of One-Round War begins with a college friend of mine named Howard Stern, who went on to graduate school at M.I.T. In 1980, his first year there, he came up with a related question: Suppose two backgammon teams are going to play a match. The top players on each team are supposed to play against each other, the No. 2 player against the No. 2 player, and so forth. Assuming Team A ranks their players honestly, can Team B strategically put their players in a different order and thereby increase their chances of winning? Howard deserves an enormous amount of credit for three things. First, he set up the problem in a way that could be solved. The problem as stated above is too vague and general to have a definitive solution, but he found a more precise version that does. Second, he found a proof-of-concept that Team B can win more than half their games on average. Third, even when he got stuck, Howard never gave up. For 30 years, every time he met a mathematician or computer scientist who might know the answer, he told them about the problem. Finally, in 2012 he saw an article in our college alumni magazine about me, and e-mailed to ask if I might have any clue. I used to be a research mathematician, but by then I had been a writer for more than 15 years. For most of that time I had barely missed doing math; What I remembered most was the endless frustration of working on problems that wouldn’t budge. But Howard’s problem was different. It quickly sucked me in, and became as much of an obsession for me as it had been for him. Over the following year, I spent at least a hundred hours working on it, devised a three-stage strategy and eventually obtained a satisfying and unambiguous solution. I can’t say that there was one great moment of insight that did it. It was more of a kitchen sink strategy: Throw everything I know at the problem, try every little trick I can think of, and see what works. Most of the things I tried didn’t work, but enough things did to keep me going. The very last phase was to come up with a better way of posing the problem. Gary Antonick felt, and I agree, that Howard’s backgammon version requires too much explanation before you get to the heart of the problem. I am indebted to Gary for forcing me to distill the problem down to its essentials. We eventually settled on a card game as the clearest way to explain it. Gary had a hand in codifying what eventually turned out to be a very simple set of rules, and in this way One-Round War was born. And a special note to math lovers everywhere: Dana Mackenzie’s “The Universe in Zero Words: The Story of Mathematics as Told through Equations,” which Nature calls “a celebration of the succinct and the singular in human expression,” is now available in paperback. That concludes our puzzle this week. As always — use Gary Hewitt’s remarkable Enhancer for an optimal Numberplay experience. And send your favorite puzzle to gary.antonick@NYTimes.com. Solution and Commentary to Stern-Mackenzie One-Round War The key to victory in this problem is capitalizing on your opponent’s fixed strategy: she will always lead with her strongest cards, so play your weakest cards against those. Let her win and waste her firepower. After the initial dust has cleared you’ll have the advantage, on average, because you’ll still have your strongest cards, while she’s stuck with weaklings.  But how exactly do you play your weak cards? It depends on your goal. To maximize your chances of winning the overall game, or more than half the contests, your should sacrifice up to half your cards: 1 card in the 3-trick game, 2 cards in the 4-trick game, and 3 cards in the 7-trick game. The strategy for N cards depends on whether N is odd or even, as detailed in the full explanation by Dana Mackenzie below. But if your goal is to beat your opponent as badly as possible (on average), you’d want to sacrifice fewer cards in order to potentially win more tricks, even though this aggressive strategy would reduce your overall chance of winning. You’d sacrifice your worst card in the 3-, 4-, 5- and 6-trick games, and only lead with your worst 2 cards once you got to 7 tricks. The strategy becomes more complicated with N cards. Here’s Dana Mackenzie with the complete recap: I was fascinated by the discussion of this week’s problem, and it went in a completely different direction from what I had anticipated! First, early in the week Joe Fendel pointed out that there are two possible objective functions to maximize. Gary Antonick and I had (intentionally) not made it clear which one we wanted. Goal (1) would be to maximize the expected number of tricks taken, and goal (2) would be to maximize the expected number of games won. As I mentioned in an early response (under the pseudonym “Word Lover”), goal (1) is the one that Howard and I took 30 years to solve. Goal (2) seems more logical because, after all, for most games the margin of victory doesn’t matter; it’s all about winning or losing. However, I don’t think that either Howard or I seriously thought about goal (2) because it looked harder. As I explained in my comment, the beauty of goal (1) is that it’s linear. The expected number of tricks won can be obtained just by adding the expected win probability for each card. By contrast, goal (2) is nonlinear. So looking at the problem through the glasses of a mathematician, it seemed as if we should try that problem first. And I’m not the only one who reached that conclusion! In the earliest reference I could find to Howard’s problem, a 1980 paper called “Scheduling Players in Team Competitions” by Arjang Assad et. al., they wrote, “There are, as yet, no efficient solution techniques for problems of this class…” Instead they looked at three “surrogates” for goal (2), one of which is goal (1). Fortunately, Bill from Long Beach, didn’t know any of this and just went ahead and solved goal (2)! It’s a very common sense solution, and his proof looks airtight to me. He says that if the number of cards per hand (N) is odd (i.e., N = 2m – 1), then you should simply play your best m cards against the opponent’s worst m, in order. It’s easily seen that if there is any way for you to take m tricks, then this way will do it. So this is an optimal strategy. That leaves the question of finding the best strategy for goal (2) if there is an even number of cards per hand, i.e., N = 2m. Jeff Mallett has presented pretty compelling computer evidence that in this case you want to sacrifice (m-1) tricks, playing your best (m+1) cards against the opponent’s worst in order. As I write this on Sunday, no one has yet given a mathematical proof, but I feel certain that it’s true. I am so glad that I didn’t specify which goal I was interested in, because if I had specified goal (1), perhaps this whole interesting discussion about goal (2) would not have happened! Now, what about goal (1)? Here there was also significant progress made, as much as I could expect in a week. B. Rubin suggested the idea of forming a matrix or array containing the probability of our i-th card beating the opponent’s j-th card. D-Ferg actually gave a formula for these probabilities. These matrices are key to Howard’s approach to the problem, so let’s look at a few of them: I have tinkered with B. Rubin and D-Ferg’s definitions slightly. First, I’ve multiplied by 2N-choose-N (the common denominator of the probabilities) to get integer matrices. Second, I’ve rearranged the rows so that the entry in row i and column j is the number of hands in which my i-th worst card beats the opponent’s j-th worst card. That’s the way Howard chose to do it, and for better or for worse I’ve stuck with his notation. Now we can state goal (2) succinctly: How can we choose one element from each row and column in a way that maximizes the sum of the elements? For example, in the case N = 4 the optimal choice is 55 + 53 + 55 + 1. This type of problem is called a linear assignment problem by computer scientists. However, the theory does not give us much of a clue about the answer. Computer scientists have found rapid algorithms to solve such problems, but a solution algorithm is not the same as a solution! All the magic of the problem is contained in Howard’s matrices, and believe me, they are truly magical. I wish I had room to tell you all of their cool properties, but let me point out a few simple ones. First, they are symmetric under reflection about the southwest-northeast diagonal. (I call this the “anti-main diagonal”.) Also, pairs of numbers that are symmetric about the southeast-northwest diagonal (the “main diagonal”) always add to the same number. Not only that, Howard observed and proved a remarkable fact. Take any 2-by-2 square in one of these matrices. Add the northeast and southwest entries and subtract the northwest and southeast entries. If your 2-by-2 square lay above the main diagonal, the result is positive; if it straddled the main diagonal, the result is zero; and if it lay below the main diagonal, the result is negative. Using these facts and not much else, Howard showed that the optimal strategy always consists of sacrificing some tricks, with your sacrificed cards in reverse order of strength, and “playing to win” the rest of the tricks, with your cards ordered from stronger to weaker. For example, in the N = 7 case, an allowable solution would be G-F-A-B-C-D-E (which is in fact the correct strategy, as noted by D-Ferg). Another allowable solution would be G-A-D-B-C-E-F. Howard’s result greatly decreases the number of possible solutions, from N-factorial to 2N-3. Howard also made the same conjecture that D-Ferg came up with: in the optimal solution, you should play your k worst cards against the opponent’s k best cards, for some k. However, Howard couldn’t prove his conjecture, and had no idea what the correct value of k might be. The problem lay fallow for 30 years. To confirm Howard’s conjecture, and compute k, I had to dig a lot deeper into Howard’s matrices. First, I showed that the optimal solution must be symmetric about the anti-main diagonal. This was the first key step, and I was shocked when I succeeded. It frequently happens in mathematics that a symmetric objective function has a maximum with the same symmetry, but you can’t count on it. In fact, if it were always true, we wouldn’t live in the universe we know today, because the Higgs boson is a result of an optimization problem with a broken symmetry. When combined with Howard’s result, this showed that the sacrificed games in fact lie on the anti-main diagonal. In other words, if we decide to sacrifice our i-th worst card, we should always play it against the opponent’s i-th best card. This rules out G-A-D-B-C-E-F, because if we decide to sacrifice card D it should be placed in the fourth position, not the third. However, G-A-E-B-C-D-F is still a possible solution. Our third-worst card (E) is sacrificed to our opponent’s third-best card. The next step was to show there are no “gaps.” This was the conjecture that D-Ferg made and Howard before him. The idea of this part of the proof was quite subtle, and in fact I could only complete it after doing the last part—finding the optimal number of games to sacrifice. In essence, I had to show that a permutation with gaps would fall short of the best gap-free permutation, which I could compute exactly. It requires some delicate estimates, and I have only succeeded in showing the “no-gaps” principle for N greater than 10 million. I suspect that the same argument will work, albeit with more effort, for N greater than 400. Howard has confirmed the “no-gaps” principle for N less than 60. I would greatly appreciate it if somebody with a supercomputer could bridge the gap, and show the no-gaps principle holds for N between 60 and 400. After all this grubby work, the best part of the problem is the last step—finding the optimal number of tricks to sacrifice. D-Ferg tabulated these numbers in one of his posts, and the pattern looks mysterious indeed. But here is the secret (up to one nuisance detail that I’ll get to in a second). To figure out the number of games to sacrifice, add the numbers in the 2N-th row of Pascal’s triangle. When the sum becomes greater than the center entry, stop. If you have added r numbers, then the correct number of tricks to sacrifice is N + 1 – r. Let’s check it for N = 7. Looking at the 14-th row of Pascal’s triangle, we compute 1 + 14 + 91 + 364 + 1001 + 2002 = 3471 > 3432 (the center entry of the 14-th row). Because we had to add six entries, the number of games to sacrifice is 7 + 1 – 6 = 2. The nuisance detail? This procedure would give the correct answer if we literally forfeited the tricks that we intended to sacrifice. However, in the real game of Stern-Mackenzie One-Round War, we might occasionally win a trick we had intended to lose. As Jeff Mallett observed (though not quite in this context), when we are playing the optimal strategy, the expected number of tricks that we will win by accident, especially when N is large, is much less than 1. Thus, in some cases, the method I have just told you may sometimes underestimate the correct number by 1, but it will never underestimate by more. For obsessive-compulsive types, there is a formula that takes into account the “accidental” tricks. However, it’s slightly less elegant than the method I have just described, so I won’t give it here. If you’d like to read a more literary version of the puzzle and its solution, please check out A Formula That Shows How to Cheat & Triumph at Tournaments, which I recently wrote for Nautilus. Finally, let me point out that a couple of readers mentioned earlier occurrences of this problem. Lee from London wrote that the N = 3 version was in effect solved more than 2300 years ago by a legendary Chinese military strategist named Sun Bin! So perhaps we should call it “Sun Bin’s One-Round War.” Thanks so much to all of you who wrote in, and I hope some of you will be motivated to continue thinking about variations on the problem. What about multiple-player versions? What about Howard’s original version, which involved a backgammon match? In Stern-Mackenzie One-Round War, card 8 beats card 7 every time. But in an actual sporting competition, such as backgammon, the higher-rated player will not win with 100 percent certainty. It would be interesting to devise a more realistic model of the advantage of one player over another, and see how robust our results are. Thank you, Dana Mackenzie, and to everyone who got out onto the battlefield this week: Neal, Gary, Joe Fendel, Bill, Daniel, Tom Enrico, Jonn Torrey, Hans, B-Rubin, D-Ferg, Lee, GLC, One Accountant, Mark, John, Ken Harper, Richard, Ricardo Ech and Jeff Mallett. Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… David Poole has something up his sleeve.Read more… Jacob Stulberg is all wet. Don’t tell him I said that.Read more… The return of John Westwig.Read more… Are you as smart as a fifth-grader? See if you can solve these algebra challenges without using algebra.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   In Our Pages: January 14. Advertisement   PARIS— text starts hereFor some time, the shopkeepers of the Ternes quarter have been receiving a number of counterfeit ten franc pieces. On Saturday a woman named Wetche was arrested for attempting to pass one of these pieces, which all bear the head of Napoleon III and the date 1864. At her home in Boulogne-sur-Seine, the police found hidden in an attic over the little watch and clock repairing shop kept by her husband, a complete counterfeiting outfit and a large number of the false coins. The whole family are now under arrest. 1939: Colonel Raynal, Hero of Verdun Dies at 72 PARIS — text starts here Colonel Sylvain Raynal, hero of the defense of Verdun in 1916, who held out in Port de Vaux against overwhelming German forces for a week, only to be forced to surrender, died yesterday at Boulogne of a heart attack. He was seventy-two. He had retired from the army in 1926 to his farm at Maraval, in Périgord. He was an honorary member of the Veterans of Foreign Wars, an American veterans’ organization. Astounded by Colonel Raynal’s feat of staving off their advance with but a handful of poilus, the Germans in 1916 treated their captive as a hero, and the Crown Prince himself accepted his sword of surrender. At a prison in Mainz, he was given special status.  This blog will share highlights and curiosities from The International Herald Tribune's storied reportage. While we will share coverage of historic events — the world wars, the women's suffrage movement, the great expeditions — we will also republish glimpses of less earth-shaking moments and the ephemera of daily life. The same stories that caught the eyes of our generations of editors now offer us insight into the lives and interests of generations of Trib readers. Read more » From the International Herald Tribune archives: Prince Victor Napoleon gives a treatise on French politics in 1891.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: British troops attack Irak forces in 1941.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: America awaits Germany’s reply to the president’s note on the Lusitania sinking in 1916.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: Part of Slovenia was formally annexed to Italy in 1941.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: Augustine Birrell resigned as Chief Secretary for Ireland in 1916.Read more… Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Movies   Golden Globe Winners Reviewed. The Times critics review Golden Globe-winning films “12 Years a Slave,” “American Hustle” and “Gravity.”          
Science   Mediterranean Diet for Diabetes Sign Up for the Running Email. Advertisement More good news on the Mediterranean diet. Sticking to a Mediterranean-style diet may help reduce the risk for Type 2 diabetes, even when people don’t lose weight or increase exercise levels. The Mediterranean diet is rich in olive oil, nuts, fish, beans, fruits and vegetables, with few dairy products and moderate alcohol consumption. The study, published in Annals of Internal Medicine, randomly assigned 3,541 men and women, ages 55 to 80 and free of diabetes, to one of three diets: a Mediterranean diet supplemented with either two ounces of extra-virgin olive oil, one supplemented with an ounce of mixed nuts a day, and a control group advised to eat a low-fat diet. They followed the participants for an average of about four years, with no intervention to increase physical activity or limit calories. Compared with the control group, and after adjusting for health and socioeconomic factors, the risk for diabetes was 40 percent lower with the Mediterranean diet supplemented with olive oil and 18 percent lower with the diet supplemented with nuts. “The strength of our study is that it has a large number of participants with a long follow-up and a randomized design,” said an author, Dr. Ramón Estruch, an associate professor of medicine at the University of Barcelona. “The diet works by itself without considering physical activity or changes in weight, which were insignificant between groups.” A version of this article appears in print on 01/14/2014, on page D4 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Nutrition: Mediterranean Diet for Diabetes. Your health questions answered by Times journalists and experts. Your Questions | All » Get Well's Running email for practical tips, expert advice, exclusive content and a bit of motivation delivered to your inbox every week to help you on your running journey. Coming soon. How much do you know about the amazing things that go on in your gut? Take our quiz to find out about the creepy, crawly critters living in your home. What surface is the most friendly to the flu virus? Where’s the best place to stand when you’re talking to a sick person? How does sleep affect health, relationships and well-being? The “Reading the Mind in the Eyes Test” measures ability to understand others’ emotional states. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   Speed of Courts a Hot Topic at Australian Open. Advertisement Advertisement By BEN ROTHENBERGJAN. 12, 2014 MELBOURNE, Australia — With the first Grand Slam of the year quickly approaching, one of the hottest topics among players has been just how quick play will be at the Australian Open. The top seed Rafael Nadal, a player at his most comfortable on slow clay, said he believed the blue hardcourts at Melbourne Park were considerably speedier than they have been in the past. “Completely different conditions than what I remembered of this tournament, faster conditions that I ever played here in Australia,” Nadal said, his tone indicating displeasure with the perceived change. Nadal, who played a marathon five-hour 53-minute match here against Novak Djokovic in 2012 in the longest Grand Slam final of all time, expressed confusion over why the Open would want to change the conditions that he believes produce the most epic and enjoyable matches. “I really don’t understand very well why they change because the last couple of years, Australian Open had amazing matching, long ones, good ones for the crowd,” he said Saturday. “I don’t know why the people who decide to make the conditions that fast. I am not sure for the show is the best thing. But they decide, and I’m just a player to try to be competitive from the beginning.” Advertisement Most players disagreed with Nadal’s perception of a major shift. Djokovic, the defending men’s champion, said Sunday there was “not any major difference, anything significant that I would notice” from last year to this one. Andy Murray, a three-time finalist, echoed that sentiment a day earlier, saying conditions were “exactly the same.” The tournament director Craig Tiley told The Melbourne Age, however, that no changes have been made to the Plexicushion surface from last year, though Wilson changed its tennis balls last year to ones with a more tightly woven felt, which could allow for quicker play. Speculation that the play might be much faster here first came up during a warm-up event two weeks ago in Brisbane. The courts there are meant to mirror the conditions in Melbourne, and they played far more quickly than they had in years past. Court conditions were also quicker and slicker at the tournament last week in Sydney, allowing the grass court specialist Tsvetana Pironkova to have her best-ever week on hardcourts. She beat three top-10 players en route to her first career WTA title. When word first reached Nadal that conditions in Australia were believed to be quicker, he responded with mock indignation. I thought Craig Tiley was a good friend,” he deadpanned. Maria Sharapova, who reached the semifinals in Brisbane, said that she played there on “one of the fastest courts we’ve played on in a really long time,” but that courts in Melbourne were “a bit slower.” “I’m not sure why there’s not more consistency in terms of all the events having the same speed,” said Sharapova, the No. 2 seed at the Open, which begins Monday. “I guess it is what it is.” While playing in the faster conditions of Brisbane, Roger Federer bemoaned that no matter how the balls were changed, the gritty courts in Melbourne would fluff up the felt on the balls. Advertisement “You can speed up the balls as much as you want, they’re going to be so fuzzed up after two games that it’s just going to be hard to hit winners and service winners,” he said. “If that’s what people want to see, just rallies, rallies, rallies all the time, then it’s good to have a slow court. If you want a bit more even ground for everybody, even the lower-ranked guys and more danger for the top guys, you go with a faster court. Maybe we’ll get more serve-and-volley back into the game or more of the unknown, which I think is nice.” Federer, the No. 6 seed at the Open, also pointed out that conditions in the late rounds in Melbourne were altered by having the semifinal and final rounds played at night, which he said had “slowed down conditions drastically over time.” The semifinals first moved to night sessions in 2000, and the first men’s night final was in 2005. “I think it’s quite incredible how things have slowed down over the years,“ Federer said of the tour in general. “I remember when I came up on tour with Lleyton things were so different,” he said, referring to Lleyton Hewitt, who turned pro in 1998, the same year as Federer. “We had to change our games around to be able to still compete today.” Murray offered a different critique of the newly renovated Margaret Court Arena besides the speed of the surface. Having practiced on it earlier that day, Murray determined that the court was “on a very big slope.” “The court is like that,” he said, tilting his arm to indicate alpine conditions. “It’s weird.” A version of this article appears in print on January 13, 2014, in The International New York Times. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
U.S.   Health Exchange Enrollment Ended With a Surge. Advertisement Advertisement By HAEYOUN PARK, DEREK WATKINS, WILSON ANDREWS and ALICIA PARLAPIANO UPDATED May 1, 2014 More than eight million people signed up for private insurance in federal and state exchanges during the initial enrollment period, exceeding the administration’s original goal of seven million. The period officially ran from Oct. 1 to March 31, but the figures also include those who signed up in a special enrollment period through April 19. Related Article How Close Enrollment Was to Targets Set by the Obama Administration Who Signed Up TOTAL ENROLLMENT Pct. of U.S. population Age 8.0 million 0% 65+ GOAL 25% 55-64 7.1 million 23% 45-54 17% 35-44 28% 18-34 6% <18 What They Selected Federal exchange Plan Type Platinum 5% Gold 9% State-run exchanges Silver 65% Bronze 20% BY OCT. 2013 NOV. DEC. JAN. 2014 FEB. MARCH Catastrophic 2% Who Signed Up How Close Enrollment Was to Targets Set by the Obama Administration What They Selected TOTAL ENROLLMENT More than a quarter of private plan enrollees are ages 18 to 34, who tend to have lower medical costs and whose premiums are needed to help pay for the higher costs of insuring older and sicker consumers. More than 60 percent of enrollees chose the mid-level silver plan. Plans are separated into categories that indicate the comprehensiveness of coverage. The platinum plan is the most expensive. 8.0 million GOAL 7.1 million Pct. of U.S. population Age Plan Type Federal exchange 0% Platinum 5% 65+ 25% 55-64 Gold 9% 23% 45-54 State-run exchanges Silver 65% 17% 35-44 Bronze 20% 28% 18-34 BY OCT. 2013 NOV. DEC. JAN. 2014 FEB. MARCH 6% <18 Catastrophic 2% Who Signed Up TOTAL ENROLLMENT How Close Enrollment Was to Targets Set by the Obama Administration What They Selected More than a quarter of private plan enrollees are ages 18 to 34, who tend to have lower medical costs and whose premiums are needed to help pay for the higher costs of insuring older and sicker consumers. More than 60 percent of enrollees chose the mid-level silver plan. Plans are separated into categories that indicate the comprehensiveness of coverage. The platinum plan is the most expensive. 8.0 million GOAL 7.1 million Pct. of U.S. population Federal exchange Age Plan Type Platinum 5% 65+ 0% 55-64 25% Gold 9% State-run exchanges 45-54 23% Silver 65% 35-44 17% Bronze 20% 18-34 28% BY OCT. 2013 NOV. DEC. JAN. 2014 FEB. MARCH <18 6% Catastrophic 2% How Close Enrollment Was to Targets Set by the Obama Administration TOTAL ENROLLMENT 8.0 million GOAL 7.1 million Federal exchange State-run exchanges BY OCT. 2013 NOV. DEC. JAN. 2014 FEB. MARCH Who Signed Up More than a quarter of private plan enrollees are ages 18 to 34, who tend to have lower medical costs and whose premiums are needed to help pay for the higher costs of insuring older and sicker consumers. Pct. of U.S. population Age 65+ 0% 55-64 25% 45-54 23% 35-44 17% 18-34 28% <18 6% What They Selected More than 60 percent of enrollees chose the mid-level silver plan. Plans are separated into categories that indicate the comprehensiveness of coverage. The platinum plan is the most expensive. Plan Type Platinum 5% Gold 9% Silver 65% Bronze 20% Catastrophic 2% *Children's Health Insurance Program Notes: Enrollment targets are from a September memo from Marilyn B. Tavenner, the administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, to Kathleen Sebelius, the health and human services secretary. Numbers in the chart are estimates provided by the Department of Health and Human Services. For several states, enrollment and Medicaid eligibility numbers could change as data is further refined. The full report can be seen here. Minnesota’s number for private plan enrollment does not include adults with incomes between 133 percent and 200 percent of the federal poverty line who are enrolled in MinnesotaCare, a public program different from Medicaid. Source: Department of Health and Human Services An earlier version of this graphic misstated the percentage of those who selected plans who are ages 18 to 34 for Delaware and D.C.
Business   Tepid U.S. Sales Are a Drag on Volkswagen’s Ambitions. Advertisement Advertisement By JACLYN TROPJAN. 13, 2014 DETROIT — Volkswagen has outlined ambitious plans to become the world’s top-selling automaker within the next four years, but its lackluster sales in the United States have been a significant drag on meeting that goal. On Monday at the North American International Auto Show, the German automaker showed that it had no intention of scaling back those ambitions, announcing that it would bring new models to the United States and invest $7 billion in North American production. Volkswagen hopes the new models will bolster its lagging sales and help it reach its goal of selling a million Volkswagen and Audi brand vehicles in the United States by 2018. A day earlier, Martin Winterkorn, chairman of Volkswagen, said the company would invest the money over the next five years to produce a midsize sport utility vehicle for the American market and increase its dealer network. The United States market is crucial to helping Volkswagen achieve its goal to sell 10 million vehicles a year worldwide by 2018, but sales for its Volkswagen brand fell 6.9 percent last year, though the company got a lift from Audi, whose sales rose 13.5 percent. Advertisement Volkswagen, Kia and Volvo were the only three mainstream brands to post sales declines in 2013. Industry wide sales surged 7.6 percent for the year as consumer confidence rebounded and new models unleashed pent-up demand. The American market “is the second-largest new vehicle market globally and a core part of VW’s strategy to become the No. 1 automaker in the world,” said Tom Libby, an analyst with IHS automotive. “The company needs to regain the momentum and growth it had here prior to 2013.” Volkswagen trails Toyota and General Motors in worldwide sales. “Volkswagen needs both a compact and midsize S.U.V. here as soon as possible,” Mr. Libby said. The midsize seven-seat sport utility vehicle Volkswagen is building for the United States market will not go on sale until 2016. The automaker has not said where it plans to build the vehicle. At its factory in Chattanooga, Tenn., the United Automobile Workers union has sought to organize the workers. On Monday, VW introduced two variations on its Golf compact car — a seventh-generation Golf R, which will go on sale in early 2015, and an eGolf electric car, which was first shown at the Los Angeles Auto Show in November. Michael Horn, incoming chief executive and president of the Volkswagen Group of America, on stage next to the Golf R, called it the highlight of the show. “I’ve got it at home in Germany in my garage.” But the new Golf models are unlikely to appeal to a broad enough market to lift sales by much, said Alec Gutierrez, a senior analyst at Kelley Blue Book. “While the Golf R and eGolf are exciting, it’s the full 2015 Golf line that will provide VW with the most significant boost in the near term,” Mr. Gutierrez said. “Golf sales were down significantly this year as most consumers interested in a Golf or GTI were delaying their purchase until the intro of the new generation which should launch early this year.” Advertisement Sales of the Golf, Volkswagen’s third most popular car after the Jetta compact and the Passat sedan, fell 24 percent last year to 30,931 vehicles. Production on the new Golf starts on Tuesday, in Puebla, Mexico, and will go on sale this summer. The weak spot in Volkswagen’s lineup, Mr. Gutierrez said, is lack of a more affordable and fuel-efficient update for the Tiguan sport utility vehicle. “This segment is growing and VW has failed to keep pace due to a high price point and fuel economy well below the industry average,” he said. The automaker will most likely get help from the Audi Q3 entry-level crossover it introduced in Detroit this week. Sales of luxury crossover utility vehicles are one of the strongest segments of the car market, rising 12.2 percent last year to outpace most of the industry, according to Kelley Blue Book. A version of this article appears in print on January 14, 2014, on page B3 of the New York edition with the headline: Poor U.S. Sales Are a Drag on Volkswagen’s Ambitions. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Foreign   In Our Pages: January 15. Advertisement   BRUSSELS — Brussels was thrown into great excitement to-day [Jan. 14] by a tragic event that happened in the courtyard of the house belonging to the Corporation of Fishmongers. Some days ago a traveling menagerie arrived in Brussels and attracted great attention by its enormous elephant. A boy of 17, who was employed at the menagerie, was in the habit of teazing the elephant by twisting his tail. The elephant never remonstrated with the boy and submitted to all his pranks with extraordinary patience. This morning the boy threw a bucketful of water over the elephant’s head. The weather was cold, and the elephant lost its temper. The pachydermatous, with one whisk of its trunk, seized the boy by the right ankle and whirled him twice over his head and then dashed him against the wall. Death was instantaneous. 1914: Assassination Attempt Fails  PARIS — General Sherif Pasha, formerly Turkish Minister in Stockholm, leader of the Ottoman Liberal Party,  was saved by his son-in-law from assassination at the hands of a Young Turk emissary in his apartment in Paris, yesterday. The attempted murder, apparently, was the continuation of this vendetta between the Young Turks and their adversaries.  This blog will share highlights and curiosities from The International Herald Tribune's storied reportage. While we will share coverage of historic events — the world wars, the women's suffrage movement, the great expeditions — we will also republish glimpses of less earth-shaking moments and the ephemera of daily life. The same stories that caught the eyes of our generations of editors now offer us insight into the lives and interests of generations of Trib readers. Read more » From the International Herald Tribune archives: Prince Victor Napoleon gives a treatise on French politics in 1891.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: British troops attack Irak forces in 1941.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: America awaits Germany’s reply to the president’s note on the Lusitania sinking in 1916.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: Part of Slovenia was formally annexed to Italy in 1941.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: Augustine Birrell resigned as Chief Secretary for Ireland in 1916.Read more… Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Movies   Clip: 'Generation War'. A scene from the film, directed by Philipp Kadelbach.          
Science   Over the Side With Old Scientific Tenets. Advertisement Advertisement Dennis Overbye OUT THERE JAN. 14, 2014 Here are some concepts you might consider tossing out with the Christmas wrappings as you get started on the new year: human nature, cause and effect, the theory of everything, free will and evidence-based medicine. Those are only a few of the shibboleths, pillars of modern thought or delusions — take your choice — that appear in a new compendium of essays by 166 (and counting) deep thinkers, scientists, writers, blowhards (again, take your choice) as answers to the question: What scientific idea is ready for retirement? The discussion is posted at edge.org. Take a look. No matter who you are, you are bound to find something that will drive you crazy. John Brockman, the literary agent and provocateur who presides over intellectual bar fights at Edge, his online salon, has been posing questions like this one since 1998. The questions have included what you believe but can’t prove, how the Internet is changing everything, and what you’ve changed your mind about. “It’s really the same thing every time,” Mr. Brockman said over the phone, explaining that this year’s question had arisen at a conference on the social sciences last summer and immediately engendered a debate about whether it was suitable for the Edge forum. Mr. Brockman’s contributors, many of whom are his clients, are a rambunctious lot who are unified by little more than a passion for ideas and the love of a good fight. (He represents several New York Times writers, although not this one.) Some are boldface names in the pop-science firmament, like Freeman Dyson, the mathematician and futurist at the Institute for Advanced Study; Steven Pinker, the best-selling linguist from Harvard; Richard Dawkins, the evolutionary biologist and best-selling atheist from Oxford University; and Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi, the psychologist who invented the notion of flow, or being completely lost in what you are doing, and who says scientists need to let go of the idea that the truths they find are good for all time and place. “Some are indeed true,” Dr. Csikszentmihalyi says, “but others depend on so many initial conditions that they straddle the boundary between reality and fiction.” That thought was echoed by Alan Alda, the actor and science popularizer who criticizes the idea that things are either true or false, a staple of logic and math. Sometimes context matters. Advertisement Take death, which seems a pretty definitive state. “The body is just a lump,” Mr. Alda says. “Life is gone. But if you step back a bit, the body is actually in a transitional phase while it slowly turns into compost — capable of living in another way.” Frank Wilczek of M.I.T., a Nobel Prize winner in physics, would retire the distinction between mind and matter, a bedrock notion, at least in the West, since the time of Descartes. We know a lot more about matter and atoms now, Dr. Wilczek says, and about the brain. Matter, he says, “can dance in intricate, dynamic patterns; it can exploit environmental resources, to self-organize and export entropy.” We can teach it to play chess. But don’t get too excited. Roger Schank, a computer scientist and psychologist for the nonprofit group Engines for Education, says that a chess-playing computer won’t tell us anything about how or why humans play chess nor will it get interested in a new game when it gets bored. We should abolish the term “artificial intelligence,” he says, adding: “There really is no need to create artificial humans anyway. We have enough real ones already.” Stewart Brand, founder of the “Whole Earth Catalog,” among many things, wants to talk about nuclear power, which he argues has been hampered by the unprovable notion that no level of radiation, no matter how low, is safe. As a result, billions of extra dollars have been spent to provide “meaningless levels of safety” around nuclear power plants — meaningless because our cells contain mechanisms for repairing radiation damage to DNA and because, moreover, “we all die.” Professor Dawkins and Lisa Feldman Barrett, a psychologist from Northeastern University, both attack the concept of essentialism, which holds that things like dogs and cats, triangles and trees, space and time, emotions and thoughts — all have an underlying essence that makes them what they are. This works great in math, Professor Dawkins argues, but is a disaster when applied to species or politics, disallowing the possibility of change or gradation. “Florida must go either wholly Republican or wholly Democrat — all 25 Electoral College votes — even though the popular vote is a dead heat,” he complains. (The number is now 29.) “But states should not be seen as essentially red or blue: they are mixtures in various proportions.” Max Tegmark, a cosmologist at M.I.T., claims we could get along just fine without the notion of infinity. The computer scientist W. Daniel Hillis of the technology company Applied Minds claims we can get along without the notion of cause and effect, which he says is just an artifact of our brains’ penchant for storytelling. Seth Lloyd, a computer scientist at M.I.T., says it’s time to lose the notion of a universe. Yes, nothing is sacred. Take evidence-based medicine, all the rage in the new age of health care. Gary Klein, a psychologist for the company MacroCognition, says the idea can impede medical progress by discouraging doctors from trying alternative treatments that have not been blessed by randomized controlled trials. He points out, for example, that many patients suffer from more conditions than experiments can control for. Advertisement Ian McEwan, the novelist, attacks this year’s question itself. Retire nothing, he says; science needs to hang onto its traditions and ideas. “Aristotle ranged over the whole of human knowledge and was wrong about much,” he says. “But his invention of zoology alone was priceless. Would you cast him aside? You never know when you might need an old idea.” The whole thing runs more than 120,000 words. You can dip into it anywhere and be maddened, confused or stirred. If there is an overall point, it is that there is no such thing as a stupid question. The true currency of science, after all, is not faith or even truth, but doubt. It’s hard to imagine a similar effort coming out of the College of Cardinals or the Politburo of the Chinese Communist Party. In science, as in democracy, everything has to be up for grabs. When the scientists and other intellectuals stop squabbling, then we will know we are in trouble. A version of this article appears in print on January 14, 2014, on page D2 of the New York edition with the headline: Over the Side With Old Tenets. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe See More » Go to Home Page »
Sports   Jets’ VanGorder to Join Notre Dame Coaching Staff. Advertisement Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSJAN. 14, 2014 Brian VanGorder, the Jets’ linebackers coach, was hired as Notre Dame’s defensive coordinator. VanGorder was an assistant under Notre Dame Coach Brian Kelly at Grand Valley State from 1989 to ’91 and won the Frank Broyles Award as the nation’s top assistant at Georgia in ’03. ■ Arizona’s all-American running back Ka’Deem Carey will forgo his final season of eligibility and enter the N.F.L. draft. Also entering the draft are the Stanford all-American left guard David Yankey and Louisiana State’s rushing leader, Jeremy Hill. ■ Duke Coach David Cutcliffe was selected as the national coach of the year by the American Football Coaches Association. A version of this brief appears in print on January 14, 2014, on page B15 of the New York edition with the headline: Jets’ VanGorder to Irish. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Business   Consumers Can Check on Data Beyond Their Credit Reports. Advertisement Advertisement By ANN CARRNSJAN. 15, 2014 You most likely know the drill when it comes to the importance of checking the accuracy of your credit report, which lenders review before deciding to make a loan or issue a credit card. Federal law allows you to get a free copy of it once a year. But there are dozens of other companies that gather consumer data for narrower purposes, and they are also required by the Fair Credit Reporting Act to give you access to your report annually. They might gather information about your employment history, your medical conditions or your track record as a renter. Two companies may be relevant here. The Work Number, a service of Equifax Workforce Solutions, verifies job and income information for many big employers, lenders and government agencies. MIB Group, formerly known as the Medical Information Bureau, helps insurance companies with underwriting for consumers seeking life, disability or long-term care insurance, and similar types of coverage. I recently submitted annual disclosure requests to both companies, to see what sort of information they might have on me. The process was simple and relatively quick. In both cases, I received a written response in the mail in less than the two weeks suggested on the companies’ websites as typical response times. That could be because both had little information about me. Or it could be, in part, because the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau recently prodded specialty companies to make sure they have easy-to-navigate systems for giving consumers timely access to disclosures. The Work Number verification service was created to help employers manage requests to confirm salary and employment information — for example, to verify a worker’s pay when he or she applies for a mortgage. Equifax Workforce Solutions, also known as the TALX Corporation, obtains its data directly from its employer clients, which it says number nearly 3,000, including most of the Fortune 500. Advertisement The Work Number’s clients provide data on employment, payroll and sometimes benefits, which is then made available, for a fee, to banks, employers and others authorized to receive it. Equifax says it provides information only to those with a legitimate reason to have it, and requires anyone seeking information on someone to obtain that person’s permission before it is released. My employment data report from The Work Number, which I requested by mail, included information about a prior employer. It listed my start and end dates; my biweekly salary; and the date and size of my last pay increase. It all looked correct — so any prospective employer checking my work history would have accurate information. Advertisement My disclosure from MIB, however, contained nothing at all. I requested my disclosure online, and received a letter a few days later stating simply that “MIB does not have a consumer file about you.” Why might that be? If you have never applied for insurance that required individual underwriting, or if it has been more than seven years since you applied, the bureau will not have any information on you. (Underwriting is the review process insurers conduct to determine if you are a good risk, and it can affect whether they offer you coverage and what your premiums are.) MIB is a cooperative that serves 450 insurance companies, providing them information to help evaluate people applying for individually underwritten insurance policies (as opposed to group policies, which usually do not require individual review). Member insurers report information to MIB, and other member insurers can get access to that data, with your permission (you generally give it when signing your application). MIB says its service can alert insurers to information — say, a condition like obesity, a bad driving record or even risky hobbies — that you may have “intentionally or inadvertently” neglected to report on an insurance application. An MIB spokesman, David Aronson, said the data-sharing helped keep insurance rates affordable by weeding out fraud. If MIB has a file on you, the disclosure letter would describe what information it contained — say, an indication of high blood pressure or diabetes — and which insurer provided it, Mr. Aronson said. MIB says it does not retain actual medical records, like X-rays or lab reports; rather, it uses proprietary codes to describe medical conditions. The conditions may flag a possible problem if they do not match up with what was said on an application. Insurers cannot deny you coverage or raise your premiums based on such information alone, he said, but must do their own investigation to confirm it. Here are some questions to consider when seeking annual disclosures: Q. How can I determine which companies might have information about me — and whether I’ve found them all? Advertisement A. The federal Consumer Financial Protection Bureau maintains a list of these so-called specialty consumer reporting companies. More than 40 companies are on the list, although it’s not all-inclusive. “There’s no definitive list, so it’s kind of amorphous,” said Chi Chi Wu, a lawyer with the National Consumer Law Center. The list, which groups the companies into categories, is a good start — but it may not be worth your time to contact all of them. The bureau advises, however, that you may want to check with “some or all” of the companies if you have been a victim of identity theft. Other situations in which you might want to check with a company include those in which you are applying for insurance or a lease on an apartment, or in which you have applied for a new job and your potential employer asks for authorization to seek a background report. Q. When should I request a disclosure from the specialty consumer reporting companies, and how do I do it? A. In general, it makes sense to request the reports if you think the information a specific company maintains may be relevant to your situation. Unlike with credit reports, there is not one central website where you can request annual reports from the specialty providers; you must apply to each company. Many provide one free report annually, although some can charge a small fee. Q. What sort of information do I need to provide when requesting a report? A. In general, be prepared to submit your name, date of birth and Social Security number; MIB also asks for information about your place of birth. The Work Number requests additional documentation when a request is submitted by mail, such as a copy of a driver’s license and a utility bill. (If your current employer is a client of The Work Number, you can usually obtain your report online at theworknumber.com.) Q. What if my report contains mistakes? A. You have the right to dispute inaccurate information, and the disclosure letter typically tells you what to do. If you are unhappy with the company’s response, you can complain to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. Go to Home Page »
Foreign   Congo: Fighters Quit, U.N. Says. Advertisement Advertisement By SOMINI SENGUPTAJAN. 14, 2014 The head of the United Nations peacekeeping mission in the Democratic Republic of Congo said Tuesday that 8,000 fighters affiliated with a variety of armed factions had surrendered since the M23 rebel group was routed in November. Among them are the Hutu militias that Rwanda holds responsible for the genocide 20 years ago. Martin Kobler, the United Nations’ special representative for Congo, said about 50 members of a Hutu group, Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda, had surrendered in each of the last two months alone, steadily diminishing what he said was a 1,800-strong force. He said his peacekeepers were focused on rooting out the rest, but warned that the group was not likely to be eliminated by military means alone. A version of this brief appears in print on January 15, 2014, on page A6 of the New York edition with the headline: Congo: Fighters Quit, U.N. Says. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Movies   Crafting the World of ‘Saving Mr. Banks’. The costume designer Daniel Orlandi and his staff sifted through hundreds of archival photos and online candids to recreate the 1961 world of Walt Disney and P. L. Travers for “Saving Mr. Banks.”     
Science   Shoring Up Those Fitness Resolutions Sign Up for the Running Email. Advertisement January is the cruelest month, at least for those with good intentions to get fit. According to recent analyses of decades’ worth of exercise studies, many new exercise “intenders” will abandon their workout routines within two weeks of their New Year’s resolutions, and about half will quit by June. Even longtime exercisers feel the pull of physical entropy. In any given year, around a quarter of the people who had been working out dutifully will stop. (And about 2 percent of those who claim to have no intention of exercising actually start and continue, baffling researchers and possibly the exercisers themselves.) Why we fail to realize our best exercise intentions is a complex interplay of psychology, physiology and genetics. Adult twins frequently have similar exercise patterns, suggesting that some portion of exercise motivation is inherited. Innate personality also plays a role, according to one of the new reviews published last fall in the British Journal of Sports Medicine. Being extroverted makes it easier to stick with exercise resolutions, while being nice (or “agreeable,” in psychological terms) does not. But most quit exercising for more commonplace — and redressable — reasons. For instance, people make generic or unrealistic plans about where and when they will exercise, making them essentially fairy-tale wishes, says Ryan Rhodes, a professor of behavioral medicine at the University of Victoria in British Columbia, who has co-written several recent reviews and conducted numerous exercise-intention experiments. “Someone can plan to go to the gym Friday at 5:30 a.m. before work,” he says, but if he or she hates early rising or prebreakfast exertion, those plans will evaporate. What Dr. Rhodes describes as a “far more detailed strategy” that concretely addresses specific obstacles (Which bus runs at 5:30 a.m.? Gym bag packed and next to the door?) is more likely to motivate behavior. Also gauge “your daily fatigue and schedule exercise during times when you feel best,” he advises. But the most important factor when it comes to sticking with exercise is so obvious that it frequently goes unheeded. The appeals of physical fitness — good health, pleasing appearance, appropriate body weight — are vague and distant, and “the actual experience of exercise is not given much consideration,” Dr. Rhodes says. In other words, we don’t think about whether we like exercise before we embark on a regimen, yet our feelings about exercise predict “who translates their intentions into behavior,” as Dr. Rhodes puts it. So the first consideration is finding your exercise bliss. Typically this includes variety, novelty and competence. People who feel ungainly in a Zumba class won’t keep attending. Rewards, furthermore, are of limited value. Promise yourself an hour of television after 30 minutes of walking through the neighborhood, and the walk can seem more pleasurable. But naked greed is not much of a motivator. In a study published last year in Preventive Medicine, 117 college freshmen agreed to visit their school’s gym on a regular schedule. Some were then paid at least $10 weekly if they complied. After four months, the for-profit exercisers had visited the facility more times in total than the other students, but only 63 percent met the original agreed-upon goals, and everyone’s attendance had fallen off week by week. Even for the notoriously impecunious, cash cannot overcome lack of interest. A version of this article appears in print on 01/19/2014, on page MM16 of the NewYork edition with the headline: How to Be Resolute. Your health questions answered by Times journalists and experts. Your Questions | All » Get Well's Running email for practical tips, expert advice, exclusive content and a bit of motivation delivered to your inbox every week to help you on your running journey. Coming soon. How much do you know about the amazing things that go on in your gut? Take our quiz to find out about the creepy, crawly critters living in your home. What surface is the most friendly to the flu virus? Where’s the best place to stand when you’re talking to a sick person? How does sleep affect health, relationships and well-being? The “Reading the Mind in the Eyes Test” measures ability to understand others’ emotional states. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   Snowboarders Prepare for the Worst. Jeremy Jones has been exploring and snowboarding remote mountain ranges for over two decades. To minimize risk, Jones and his fellow athletes continually refine their mountaineering and rescue skills.          
Technology   Appeals Court Opinion Rejecting F.C.C. Net Neutrality Rules. Advertisement Advertisement By EDWARD WYATT and ASHWIN SESHAGIRI JAN. 14, 2014 A federal appeals court threw out Federal Communications Commission rules that require Internet service providers to give all traffic equal access through their networks. The decision could pave the way for Internet service providers like Verizon and AT&T to charge content companies — say, ESPN or Facebook — to deliver their data to consumers at a faster speed. Related Article
Travel   How to Choose an Air Travel Search Site. Advertisement Advertisement Seth Kugel FRUGAL TRAVELER JAN. 15, 2014 Which airline booking sites offer the cheapest airfares? If your answer was Expedia — or any of the other dozens of online travel agencies — you’re wrong. If it was “They’re all the same,” you’re definitely wrong. “It’s so overwhelming, I have no idea”? You’re getting close. The real solution is finding the sites that best fit your specific travel needs — all the more true for the heavily budget-conscious. Each has different strengths offered through different interfaces that use different functions and produce different results. But where to go for what? Even for people like me who live on these sites, it’s not always clear. So I designed a test — from Europe, as it turned out, where I was reporting on the road. I selected 15 online travel agencies, from the old stalwarts like Travelocity to an excellent (and increasingly robust) group of upstarts like Routehappy, which are more likely to take into account niche specifics like seat pitch. Then I put them through the wringer, shopping for six itineraries, from basic domestic to overseas-only to elaborately multicity: Miami-Chicago, Louisville-Portland, Los Angeles-Paris, Dallas-Singapore, Shanghai-Chengdu in China and, finally, New York-Guadalajara-Bogotá-Charlotte (presumably a Mexican-Colombian-American visiting family and the Nascar Hall of Fame). I should note that I couldn’t include every site in my tests, and left out a popular one I couldn’t figure out how to use abroad: Bing Travel. As I learned too late from a spokeswoman, it only works in the United States. There’s a workaround — you can switch settings to “tailor” your search to “the United States — English,” But that’s one extra hassle I wasn’t willing to take on. That said, the results? For one, my eyes hurt. But more important, I created what I hope is a useful (though not definitive) guide to which sites work best under which circumstances. Advertisement If Cheap Is All That Matters The sites you’ve certainly heard of — Travelocity, Expedia, Kayak, Orbitz — were all dependably similar, their lowest offerings rarely differing more than a few dollars. But the upstarts occasionally beat them. For that Miami-Chicago flight, the old guard circled around $378. But Routehappy found one for $361, and I followed it through to just before the final click, and it was legit. (Momondo gets an honorable mention at $364.) So the best technique here is to check one of the traditional sites, and then play around with the new guys and see if they can pull an upset. Then, before you book, check the airline’s own website to make sure it’s not even cheaper there. (And don’t forget that Southwest — by its own choice — doesn’t show up on most sites.) And as long as you’ve popped over, it’s almost always a good idea to do the actual booking from the airline’s site: It’s often easier — and rarely harder — to take care of the minutiae (entering your awards number, choosing seats and paying for extra luggage, as well as changing your reservation down the line if necessary). When You Want Cheap — Within Limits Sometimes the sites think more like soulless machines than like humans. On occasion they’ll list a $400 flight with a 12-hour layover before a $401 flight with a 90-minute layover — not a choice most travelers would make. Just ask it to sort by trip length, you say? Then that $401 flight might disappear under an avalanche of $9,999 flights with 89-minute layovers. O.K., that’s an exaggeration, but it’s a real issue: Even cheapskates will sometimes pay $50 to shave six hours off a layover. That’s when you turn to sites like Hipmunk, where the default setting orders the flights by “agony,” dropping flights with long layovers or sky-high prices down the list. This worked especially well with that Dallas-Singapore route, where, after a great deal of sorting on Expedia and Travelocity, I finally decided the cheapest tolerable flight was $1,174, with a total trip time of 25 hours, 10 minutes out and 23 hours, 42 minutes back. When I tried the same search on Hipmunk, it put that precise itinerary right at the top. Routehappy’s algorithm includes other factors you might be willing to pay more for, including seat space and electrical outlets; their top choice (without changing the default preferences) was a $1,555 Korean Air itinerary with an extra three inches and three fewer hours. Worth it? That’s up to you. If You’re Booking a Domestic Route on Short Notice Priceline’s opaque bidding system works well with hotels — I’ve often saved 30 to 50 percent on hotels by placing an absurdly low bid and allowing the site to charge my card before it told me exactly which hotel I was paying for. Savings are less and more rare on flights, but do exist, particularly on domestic flights booked just a few days in advance. Savings top out at about 40 percent, so try bidding 10 or 20 percent below the cheapest standard fare. If your bid fails, no problem: Book through Priceline’s regular service, which fared as well as other big-name sites on my tests. Two caveats: You can choose the date but not the departure time of your flight (or the airline), and you might be stuck with an annoying layover. But other than advance planning, I don’t know a better way to shave dollars off a standard domestic ticket. When Your Dates or Destination Are Flexible Most of the bigger sites (notable exception: Expedia) offer to find you cheaper flights if you’re willing to fly one to three days earlier or later. That was a nice innovation in 2010, but these days their systems seem inflexible, and the resulting grids dizzying. Much better are the far more intuitive bar graphs you get on Momondo and Google Flight Explorer. There’s also GetGoing, which will give you a discount if you give it two destinations you like and let it pick one. And at Adioso, one of the newer sites in my survey, you start by just typing in your starting point and destination, and mold preferences from there. That won’t work for Thanksgiving visits to family, though, and the results can be hit or miss. (The company is promising lots of improvements in 2014.) If You Have Commitment Issues For a few bucks, Options Away will hold your reservation for between a day and a few weeks. That’s great if, for example, you need to coordinate plans with others. Two problems: It only works on domestic flights within a limited list of cities, and its base rates are not always competitive. On that Miami-Chicago route, the site’s best base price was $400, versus the standard $378 I found everywhere else. So in that case, the $10 premium you pay to hold your ticket for a week is actually more like $32 if you end up buying it. When You Need a Complex, Multi-Leg Route Not every site allows multi-leg itineraries. Of those that do, I used to recommend Vayama for multi-leg, international searches. But when it came time to test my New York-Guadalajara-Bogotá-Charlotte route, its “Multi Cities” function flunked on two attempts, issuing a “We’re sorry, Vayama could not find any matching flights” message. Meanwhile, Expedia and Orbitz didn’t bat an eye, spitting out multiple quality choices as easily as if I had asked to book the New York-Washington shuttle. The best options were packages for about $1,040 adding up to about 30 hours of travel time. Travelocity did too, but only after I finally found the multi-leg function hidden in “Advanced Search Options”; Hipmunk and Momondo wasted my time with flights that disappeared when I went to book them; and Kayak simply overwhelmed me with too many options, forcing me to click through page after page of near-identical offerings to find something different (and their filters barely helped). Advertisement If Your Trip Starts and Ends Outside North America or Europe This one gets tricky. American and European sites often can’t find cheap fares on regional carriers elsewhere in the world. So start elsewhere. Googling or asking foreign friends is a good start; they might lead you to sites like Brazil’s Submarino Viagens (alas, not in English) and China’s Ctrip (sometimes buggy). That’s where I began my Shanghai-Chengdu search, finding a $253 nonstop using Shanghai Airlines out and Air China back. When the site kept demanding a phone number that I had already given, an online chat representative helped me with a workaround so I could book; of course, I could have also gone to the airlines’ sites. As expected, the regulars mostly bombed: The best deals on Expedia, Travelocity, and Orbitz topped $500; Hipmunk and Cheapoair were over $400. But then a surprise: Kayak and Momondo unearthed a $233 flight on Spring Airlines, a low-cost carrier that Ctrip left out. I was sent to the airline’s site to book, but it worked smoothly. Quite an upset, but don’t count on that happening every time. When You’re Pressed for Time For those who want to book an entire trip — flight, hotel, car rental — in one place, the traditional sites will definitely save you time. But if you’re focused just on flights, there are other considerations. Most straightforward is the amount of time it takes each site to process your searches. The clear winner there is Google Flights (a different offering from Google Flight Explorer), with shockingly instantaneous results — you’d almost think they’d invented the modern search engine. But it occasionally costs you time while booking. They’re not alone in forcing you to other sites to book, but only on Google did I sometimes have to re-enter my search details once transferred. (In one case it even told me to call a travel agent!) For a Better Online Experience Some sites are particularly pleasant to use, in both superficial and substantive ways: Hipmunk’s graphic displays of flights and layovers; Kayak’s input simplicity; Momondo’s clear presentation of great information about options. Losers here were Cheapoair, for frequently kicking me off to a results page before I had completed my search (I must have continuously hit some shortcut key accidentally, but it didn’t happen anywhere else) and Travelocity, which has an unpleasant interface. One strike against Momondo: I was often directed to European booking sites, which charged me in euros, forcing me to seek out conversion rates and making me nervous about whether my own card would give me the same rate. (Some cards, though not mine, also charge for international transactions.) See More » Go to Home Page »
U.S.   Obama on Surveillance Through the Years. Throughout his political career, President Obama has expressed a range of views on balancing national security needs with personal rights and freedoms.          
Washington   Snowden to Join Board of the Freedom of the Press Foundation. Advertisement Advertisement By CHARLIE SAVAGEJAN. 14, 2014 Washington — Edward J. Snowden, the former National Security Agency contractor whose leaks of secret documents set off a national and global debate about government spying, is joining the board of a nonprofit organization co-founded by Daniel Ellsberg, the well-known leaker of the Pentagon Papers during the Vietnam War. The announcement by the group, the Freedom of the Press Foundation, is the latest contribution to a public relations tug of war between Mr. Snowden’s critics, who portray him as a criminal and a traitor, and his supporters, who say he is a whistle-blower and source for the news media in the tradition of Mr. Ellsberg. The foundation’s board already includes two of the journalists Mr. Snowden gave N.S.A. documents to, Glenn Greenwald and Laura Poitras. But the organization — which consulted with lawyers about whether adding Mr. Snowden to its board could jeopardize its nonprofit tax status — is trying to emphasize parallels between Mr. Snowden and Mr. Ellsberg. In 1971, the Nixon administration charged Mr. Ellsberg with violating the Espionage Act because he gave the Pentagon Papers, a classified history of decision-making about the Vietnam War, to The New York Times and other newspapers. A court eventually threw out the case for government misconduct. Mr. Snowden has been charged under that same law. “He is no more of a traitor than I am, and I am not a traitor,” Mr. Ellsberg said in an interview. He added that he was proud that Mr. Snowden would serve alongside him on the group’s board, calling Mr. Snowden a hero who “has done more for our Constitution in terms of the Fourth and First Amendment” than anyone else Mr. Ellsberg knows. Advertisement The announcement comes days after the top Republican and Democratic lawmakers on the House Intelligence Committee sought to paint a far more sinister portrait of Mr. Snowden, saying he had aligned himself with America’s enemies and jeopardized national security. They cited a classified defense intelligence report they said concluded that most of the documents he took concerned military activities rather than civil liberties. “Make no mistake, Snowden is no patriot and there is no way to excuse the irreparable harm he caused to America and her allies, and continues to cause,” said the chairman, Representative Mike Rogers, Republican of Michigan. He added that Mr. Snowden’s “real acts of betrayal” were “likely to have lethal consequences for our troops in the field.” Ben Wizner, an American Civil Liberties Union lawyer advising Mr. Snowden, called such criticism “exaggerated national security fears” that amounted to “an attack on the journalists who have published the stories based on the documents.” He added. “The government said much more dire things about what would happen if The New York Times published the Pentagon Papers. None of them turned out to be true.” In a statement provided by the foundation, Mr. Snowden said he was honored to serve the cause of a free press “alongside extraordinary Americans like Daniel Ellsberg.” Because Mr. Snowden is living in Russia, where he was granted temporary asylum, he will participate in board meetings by a remote link, according to the group’s director, Trevor Timm. Mr. Timm said that before offering Mr. Snowden a position, the group consulted with lawyers about whether doing so could create legal problems. The Internal Revenue Service recently granted the group nonprofit status under a section of the tax code that allows donors to deduct contributions from their taxable income, he said. The lawyers, he said, concluded that Mr. Snowden’s participation as a board member — an unpaid position — should not jeopardize that status because the I.R.S. has not penalized other groups with board members under indictment. Rather, such tax status is generally put at risk when groups stray from their mission. Mr. Timm said that the foundation’s mission was to encourage “news organizations to publish government secrets in the public interest and for brave whistle-blowers to come forward, even though it is personally very risky.” He added: “Snowden embodies exactly what we started this organization for, so I think we’re pretty safe.” Advertisement The foundation was started 14 months ago for the initial purpose of enabling donations to WikiLeaks after firms like PayPal, MasterCard, and Visa began refusing to process contributions. It rapidly expanded into other activities, including raising funds for other organizations and hiring a stenographer to produce daily transcripts of the court-martial trial of Chelsea Manning, then known as Pfc. Bradley Manning, WikiLeaks’ main source. It raised about $650,000 last year, Mr. Timm said, of which about $500,000 went to various other organizations, including about $200,000 to WikiLeaks. The group is increasingly focused on helping journalists protect the security of their communications, including by disseminating and managing a free software system to enable would-be sources to send leaked files to journalists in a way it says can evade surveillance. “Journalism isn’t possible unless reporters and their sources can safely communicate, and where laws can’t protect that, technology can,” Mr. Snowden said in his statement. “This is a hard problem, but not an unsolvable one, and I look forward to using my experience to help find a solution.” A version of this article appears in print on January 15, 2014, on page A16 of the New York edition with the headline: Snowden Joins Board of Press Group Founded by Daniel Ellsberg. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Business   What’s in a Name? The Equus Bass770. Advertisement Advertisement By BENJAMIN PRESTONJAN. 16, 2014 DETROIT — Equus is Latin for horse. It’s also English for a certain Hyundai model, but don’t tell that to Equus Automotive. Michael Qualid, a spokesman for the company, said that Equus didn’t know the name had been in use on Hyundai’s premier luxury model when Equus opened in 2006, but he expressed hope that the Korean automaker would not come after a niche marque over its name. The Equus Bass770, a retro muscle car on display in a corner of the Detroit auto show, is not a ’67 or ’68 Ford Mustang fastback, but it looks exactly like one. Even the interior, filled with modern necessities such as high seat backs and air bags, features a look that brings its viewer into a leather-wrapped 1960s muscle-car cave. But even though it has the same profile and many of the same body creases as the Mustang, all similarities end there. The Equus is nearly 10 inches longer, about 5 inches wider and 3 inches taller than the Mustang made famous by the “Bullitt” chase scene. That’s because the car’s aluminum frame and carbon-fiber and aluminum body are, although assembled to look like an old Mustang, made from scratch, Mr. Qualid said. It also has a General Motors engine under its long hood. The car’s front clip looks like it came from the early ‘70s Mopar playbook. The tail lights could have been adapted from a late ‘60s Camaro. Equus does say in its sales brochure that the Bass770 was “born of an abiding passion for genuine 1960s and 1970s muscle cars,” so it’s good to know that all three Detroit automakers appear to have been represented in some manner, if only vestigially. The cars are built in Rochester Hills, Mich. Equus engineers placed the car’s 640-horsepower LS9 supercharged 6.2-liter V8 (used in the Chevrolet Corvette ZR1) as far back as possible, to improve weight distribution and to create a long energy absorption zone forward of the engine. If you’ve ever looked beneath the hood of a ’68 Mustang, there’s some room between the radiator and the grille, but in the Equus interpretation, there’s a lot of space there, because the engine lives pretty far aft in a slight divot in the firewall. Equus says the Bass770 meets federal motor vehicle safety certification standards. Mr. Qualid said that by having a small passenger compartment within a long body, it was possible to incorporate big crumple zones into the design. As for its emissions certification, he said that Equus had not received it yet, but that since the LS9 is already a certified engine, it shouldn’t be too much of a problem for the company. He also said that Equus is working toward getting European safety and emissions certifications for the car. Advertisement The cars Equus brought to Detroit this week — one red, another white and the other blue – looked good. But there were a few little details the boutique automaker may want to address before attempting to sell a $250,000 sports coupe. For example, the rear decklid on the white car didn’t look as if it fit perfectly. On the dashboard of the red car, I believe I saw some slight wrinkles and uneven stitching in the leather that in a Ferrari of similar price, you would never, ever see. Mr. Qualid said that Equus hoped to sell 100 cars in the first year of production; perhaps as many as 200 a year later on. Although the company’s name could be a potential legal issue with Hyundai, Mr. Qualid said that Equus had not been contacted about it. Jim Trainor, a spokesman from Hyundai, said he was “very familiar” with the Equus Bass770, but declined to comment on the Equus name. The Equus logo seems safe from legal attack, though. Like the Mustang’s logo, it’s a horse, but unlike the Mustang’s logo, the image is not a profile of a horse in full gallop. Nor is the horse prancing, like the one in the Ferrari logo. The Equus horse assumes a stance vaguely similar to the Lamborghini bulls. But instead of having its head lowered, preparing to charge, the Equus horse appears to be rearing back, as if spooked. The model name is a bit nebulous. Ian James, a spokesman for Equus, said in a telephone interview that the 770 stands for the volume, in cubic centimeters, of each of the engine’s eight cylinders. But as for the Bass — as in the musical instrument, not the fish — part of it Mr. James said was simply a name the company had settled upon when it decided to build the car. Go to Home Page »
Foreign   Military Opens Investigation Into Photos of Dead Iraqi Militants. Advertisement Advertisement By ASHLEY SOUTHALLJAN. 16, 2014 The United States military said it had begun an inquiry after photographs that appeared to show Marines burning the dead bodies of Iraqi militants appeared on a gossip website. The photos were obtained by the website, TMZ.com, which published some of them online on Wednesday. TMZ said the photos were shot in Falluja sometime in 2004. Two of the photos posted on Wednesday show a man in a Marine’s uniform pouring liquid from a gasoline can on two decaying bodies. Two other photos show the bodies on fire, and two more show the charred remains. In one photo a man poses on one knee with his rifle pointed toward a human skeleton. In another, a man is running his hands through the pants pockets of one of the bodies. TMZ said the pictures showed more than a dozen bodies. The site posted eight of 41 pictures, withholding the rest because it said they were “too gruesome.” TMZ said it turned over all the photographs to the Department of Defense last week. The website did not say when or how it obtained them. Navy Cmdr. Bill Speaks confirmed in an email that the Marine Corps was investigating. “We are aware of photos appearing on TMZ.com that depict individuals in U.S. Marine uniforms burning what appear to be human remains,” he said. “The actions depicted in these photos are not what we expect from our service members, nor do they represent the honorable and professional service of the more than 2.5 million Americans who have served in Iraq and Afghanistan.” Advertisement Commander Speaks added that the Marines were “investigating the veracity of the photos, circumstances involved, and if possible, the identities of the service members involved. The findings from this investigation will determine whether we are able to move forward with any investigation into possible wrongdoing.” TMZ also reported that the United States Central Command, which runs military operations in the Middle East, said that the photographs had not been previously brought to its attention. Under the Uniform Code of Military Justice, mishandling human remains in a war zone is a crime for which there is no statute of limitations. However, if those involved are now private citizens, the military would have to recall them to active duty to face charges, a potentially complex legal procedure. Falluja, in Iraq’s Anbar Province, was the site of a November 2004 battle where about 100 Marines died. In recent weeks, the city has fallen into the hands of Sunni insurgents, some backed by Al Qaeda, who have raised their black insurgent flag over government buildings. A year ago, a video that showed Marines urinating on the bodies of dead Afghans threatened to upend delicate talks among the United States, the Afghan government and the Taliban. A Marine involved in that episode, which officials said occurred in 2011, pleaded guilty in December 2012, and was sentenced to a reduction in rank and a forfeiture of $500 in pay. The Marine, Staff Sgt. Joseph Chamblin, said he had no regrets and that he would do it again as revenge for the deaths of American service members. Go to Home Page »
Home   Just for You, Blue. Advertisement Advertisement On Location By ELAINE LOUIE JAN. 15, 2014 What do you do when you love bright color but don’t want to be overwhelmed by it? Hire a designer who works almost entirely in white. It sounds counterintuitive, but it made sense to Rhonda Weinman, 55, a financial planner with a house on Long Island who asked her friend Peri Wolfman to design an apartment on the Upper West Side. Years ago, Ms. Wolfman and her husband, Charles Gold, owned Wolfman-Gold and Good Company, one of the first stores in SoHo to carry tableware in just one color: white. Later, she was the tableware designer for Restoration Hardware, where much of what she produced was white. Her own homes and most of the furnishings are white; even her clothing is primarily white. As she put it, “I’m allergic to color.” None of that worried Ms. Weinman, who rents the 500-square-foot studio for $3,500 a month to use as a weekend pied-à-terre. She’s a pro, Ms. Weinman thought. She’ll do what the client wants. But when Ms. Weinman told her friend that what she wanted was an apartment decorated in one of her favorite colors, which happen to be fuchsia, purple and turquoise, it was almost a deal-breaker. Advertisement Fuchsia and purple were out of the question. “But I like turquoise,” Ms. Wolfman said. “So I took a deep breath and said, ‘For you, Rhonda, I can do turquoise.’ ” Ms. Wolfman painted just two areas of the studio that color — the front door and the walls surrounding the sleeping area — so the bed appears to be in a turquoise room of its own. All the other walls are white, and so are the ceilings. “The ceiling couldn’t be turquoise,” Ms. Wolfman said. “It would have been oppressive.” To soften the color, she added pale gray furniture. And in the kitchen, she hung a huge, dark gray aluminum clock. “I like things oversized in a small apartment,” she said. “It makes it feel like a bigger space.” Ms. Wolfman, who was given an $18,000 budget, finished within a month, from paint and furniture to flatware and bedding, shopping mostly at CB2, West Elm, Wisteria.com and Restoration Hardware. And in September, Ms. Weinman moved in. Since then, she has spent nearly every weekend at the apartment. She considers it a personalized version of the hotel rooms where she used to stay when she came to the city. It even has a safe, in a corner of the closet. But now, if she moves, Ms. Weinman knows she can take the décor with her. Everything except the turquoise walls. A version of this article appears in print on January 16, 2014, on page D4 of the New York edition with the headline: Just for You, Blue. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe See More » Go to Home Page »
Movies   This Week’s Movies. The ultimate film lover’s guide: The Times critics A.O. Scott, Manohla Dargis and Stephen Holden offer their picks for the week’s best movies, from blockbusters to hidden gems.          Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics Obama, Dancing with the Star (Wars) Cuban Ballet School in Motion Best of Obama's Correspondents' Dinner Speech This Week’s Movies: May 6, 2016 Welfare and the Politics of Poverty Fort McMurray Wildfire Under Investigation Canada Wildfire Prompts Mass Evacuations Why It’s Hard to Keep the Pounds Off Cruz Responds to Trump’s Paternal Dig
Science   Think Like a Doctor: A School of Red Herrings Sign Up for the Running Email. Advertisement Solve a medical mystery with Dr. Lisa Sanders. The Challenge: Can you figure out what is wrong with a 29-year-old former volleyball player who develops some odd aches and pains and a swollen foot? Every month the Diagnosis column of The New York Times Magazine asks Well readers to take on a difficult case and offer their solutions to a diagnostic riddle. This month’s case revolves around an athletic and previously healthy 29-year-old woman who developed a pain in her groin, a swollen foot and ankle and a slew of lab abnormalities. We will provide you with many of the notes and tests from the many doctors who saw this patient. The first reader to provide the correct test to make the diagnosis gets a signed copy of my book “Every Patient Tells a Story” and the satisfaction of unraveling a tough tough case. The Patient’s Story: “Is your blood pressure always this high?” Dr. Becky Miller asked the young woman who had come to see her. Until recently it had been fine, the slender 29-year-old told her. It was kind of crazy because she’d been healthy her whole life, the young woman continued. But these past several months she’d been seeing doctors almost weekly, and it seemed like every time anyone checked, her blood pressure was high. Dr. Miller was the newest specialist the young woman had been sent to since her ordeal began eight months earlier. It started innocuously enough. She’d enrolled in a new Pilates class and somehow injured her left hip. As a high school athlete and, briefly, a professional volleyball player, she knew the ache of a pulled groin muscle, but this felt worse — a lot worse. Walking hurt, even sitting hurt; exercise was impossible. She asked around and found an orthopedic surgeon in her Los Angeles neighborhood. He diagnosed her with a grade 2 sprain in her groin muscles and sent her for physical therapy. That didn’t help. Then several weeks in, with her hip still bothering her, her left foot and ankle swelled up. A Long List of Doctors: The young woman went to her primary care doctor. He was the first to take note of her elevated blood pressure. Let’s keep an eye on that, he told her. He wasn’t much concerned with the swelling; she should just take it easy and use compression stockings when she needed them. That didn’t sit right with her. She felt like this was more than just the pulled muscle, so she went to her endocrinologist. He had helped her a couple of years earlier when she’d had irregular periods. Back then he figured out that she had too much of a hormone known as prolactin, which was messing up her menstrual cycle. An M.R.I. of her brain showed a tiny spot on her pituitary gland, the likely cause of the excess hormone. He put her on a medication called bromocriptine to block the prolactin and her periods improved, though they were still irregular. The endocrinologist wasn’t sure what had caused her swollen foot. He ordered an ultrasound to look for a clot in that leg, but no clot was found. He ordered a CT scan of her abdomen and pelvis to see whether something might be getting in the way of the blood flowing back into her heart. No obstruction was found, but the scan did reveal that her spleen was somewhat enlarged. The endocrinologist sent her to a G.I. specialist, who scoped her. He saw some gastritis, but nothing that would cause a big spleen. However, a blood test revealed that she had too many red blood cells — an unusual finding, especially in a young woman who was still menstruating. So he sent her up the street to Dr. Becky Miller, a hematologist at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center. The Patient’s History: When the patient walked into Dr. Miller’s cheerful waiting room that morning, the first thing she noticed was that she was the youngest patient in the office by a good 20 to 30 years. That scared her a little. Still, Dr. Miller’s cheerful manner and brightly colored crocs put her at ease. The doctor led her to a couple of armchairs in the middle of a homey office, and she launched into her by now well-rehearsed story about her symptoms, doctors and tests. Dr. Miller paid close attention, nodding and jotting down notes in the pad on her lap. When the doctor examined her, she seemed quite surprised by the high blood pressure reading. The patient was quite tall, 5-foot-10, and slender, 150 pounds, with an athletic build. No, she told the doctor, she’d never had high blood pressure until her doctor had noticed it earlier that year. The young woman looked quite healthy. She had a couple of tattoos on her back and arm. And some tenderness in the upper left quarter of the abdomen, where her spleen was located. Her left ankle was still a little swollen. The rest of her exam was normal. Some Unusual Lab Results: Dr. Miller had already reviewed the lab test results obtained by the gastroenterologist; they showed that the patient had a hematocrit of 50. Normal, for a woman, is usually up to 40. The labs sent to Dr. Miller can be seen here.   Dr. Miller first considered causes of the patient’s elevated hematocrit and enlarged spleen. She was worried that this was some type of cancer. Could this be polycythemia vera, an abnormal proliferation of red blood cells? Or was this leukemia? She sent blood off to be tested for these illnesses, and when the results came back negative, she sent the patient for a bone marrow biopsy. She was reassured when that was unrevealing as well, so she turned her focus to the other medical issue: the patient’s relatively new high blood pressure. You can see Dr. Miller’s note here.   Looking for a Cause of High Blood Pressure: High blood pressure is certainly common. One out of three Americans have it, and for well over 90 percent of them, no cause will be found — a condition called essential hypertension. Many of these individuals will need lifelong drug treatment along with a low-salt diet and regular exercise to prevent complications from their disease. However, in 5 to 10 percent of cases, high blood pressure has an underlying and, more importantly, treatable cause. Address the cause, and the high blood pressure will usually resolve. The trick is to identify those few who have high blood pressure as a symptom of another problem from the many who have essential hypertension. This patient was at increased risk for hypertension — her father had it. Still, could some medical problem be causing her blood pressure to rise? And if so, was it also linked to her swollen ankle and high red blood cell count? The doctor started the patient on an antihypertensive medication, lisinopril, and began looking for something that could have made this young woman’s blood pressure rise. Was there a diagnosis that could make all these symptoms make sense? Feeling the Pressure: Medications are the by far most common cause of an elevated blood pressure. Many everyday over-the-counter drugs, including painkillers like ibuprofen or decongestants like Sudafed, can raise blood pressure. So can alcohol or stimulants like caffeine, nicotine or cocaine. Ordinary prescription drugs like antidepressants, Ritalin or birth control pills can too. But this patient told Dr. Miller that she took none of those drugs, rarely drank alcohol and never smoked. In children, the most common cause of high blood pressure is a narrowing, or coarctation, of the aorta. If the condition is not found in childhood, it will continue to cause high blood pressure in adults. A difference in blood pressure between the left and right arm can suggest this problem. This patient’s blood pressure was the same in both arms. Another treatable cause of high blood pressure is narrowing of the smaller arteries leading to the kidneys, but a CT scan of the abdomen showed normal vessels. You can see the report of the CT scan here.   Finally, some diseases cause excess secretion of body chemicals like thyroid hormone, adrenaline or cortisol that can raise blood pressure. The hematologist sent off tests looking for any of these, and when several came back abnormal, Dr. Miller sent the patient back to her endocrinologist. You can see the results of the testing that Dr. Miller ordered here.   The endocrinologist ordered several tests to try to figure out what was going on. One of them was quite revealing. Solving the Mystery: Now I ask you, gentle reader, if you could order only one test to figure out what was wrong with this patient, which test would you order to lead you most rapidly to the right diagnosis? And what is the correct diagnosis? I’ll post the answer tomorrow.    Join in the discussion.    Rules and Regulations: Post your responses in the comments section. The correct answer will appear Friday on Well. The first person to get the correct test and diagnosis is the winner and will be contacted. Reader comments may also appear in a coming issue of The New York Times Magazine. Updated, Friday Jan. 17 3:50 p.m. | Thanks for all your responses! You can read about the correct diagnosis at “Think Like a Doctor: Red Herrings Solved!” Your health questions answered by Times journalists and experts. Your Questions | All » Get Well's Running email for practical tips, expert advice, exclusive content and a bit of motivation delivered to your inbox every week to help you on your running journey. Coming soon. How much do you know about the amazing things that go on in your gut? Take our quiz to find out about the creepy, crawly critters living in your home. What surface is the most friendly to the flu virus? Where’s the best place to stand when you’re talking to a sick person? How does sleep affect health, relationships and well-being? The “Reading the Mind in the Eyes Test” measures ability to understand others’ emotional states. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   In Wilting Heat, Sharapova Escapes 2nd Round. Advertisement Advertisement By GREG BISHOPJAN. 16, 2014 MELBOURNE, Australia — As her match dragged more than three hours, Maria Sharapova stomped and grunted and stole glances at her box. Her face twisted into grimaces. She seemed happiest on changeovers, underneath the shade of an umbrella, an ice vest draped over the back of her neck. So much appeared stacked against her: temperatures that climbed to 44 degrees Celsius (111 Fahrenheit) and forced Australian Open officials to invoke their “extreme heat policy” and shut down play on the outside courts; a serve that turned shaky with a series of double faults; and an opponent, Karin Knapp of Italy, who played a fearless brand of tennis, as if buoyed by the heat. Sharapova botched three match points earlier in the third set, as momentum swung in Knapp’s direction. Inside Rod Laver Arena, the air felt thick, heavy, even with the roof partially closed to provide shade. Programs became makeshift fans. Empty water bottles filled trash cans. To say it was hot was to say there was tennis — two obvious assertions. Knapp slung winners from the baseline, hitting harder, her shots more daring the later the match went. Sharapova fought. She fought through three doubles faults. She fought through temperatures that turned Melbourne Park into tennis’s Mojave Desert. She fought until ahead late in the third set, when Knapp sent a backhand long and their contest ended, finally, mercifully, the tally 6-3, 4-6, 10-8. Sharapova advanced to the third round. So many questions lingered afterward. They centered on whether the match should have been finished at all under such sauna-like conditions. The participants were not so sure — and clearly not that happy. Advertisement “There is no getting around the fact that the conditions were extremely difficult, and have been for the last few days,” Sharapova said. Sharapova took the most issue with the uncertainty involved. She noted that players do not know at what temperature matches will be stopped — because there is no exact temperature but rather the discretion of the tournament referee. She said she received her first weather-related notification from tournament officials after her match, while she was in an ice bath. She also said she did not want to complain, and that she never considered on court whether the temperatures were too high, the conditions too dangerous. She thought only about winning, surviving, making it through to the next round. Knapp was asked the same questions afterward. “Maybe they should change some rules,” she said. “Because it’s not the same like playing under the roof. It was really tough.” Their match lasted for three hours and 28 minutes. But while the third set continued without an end in sight, the Open announced the implementation of its extreme heat policy. It was the third day a heat wave here that had resulted in lowered attendance; caused one player to faint on court and another player to vomit; and left one participant, Ivan Dodig of Croatia, to say Wednesday “I was thinking I could die here” after cramps forced him to retire from a singles match. When the policy went into effect, it meant that no matches were played on the outside courts until 6 p.m. local time, a break of four hours. Play continued at Rod Laver and Hisense arenas, where the roofs were closed. None of that helped Sharapova, her face the picture of agony. The chair umpire warned Sharapova for taking too long on her serve, and the third seed shot an icy glare in the umpire’s direction. Both players tried to step into the shade behind the baselines between points until the next serve. Whenever Sharapova seemed to take control, Knapp countered. She stepped into her groundstrokes, took the ball early, sent flat backhands into corners to force Sharapova to give chase. Advertisement Sharapova eventually recovered. She ripped a forehand winner down the line to break Knapp at 8-8. The crowd stood and cheered and reached for the closest nearby beverage. “I had to play, and I had to finish the match and do it the best I can,” Sharapova said. “It’s not the best conditions, but I don’t want to complain.” When it ended, Sharapova pumped both fists and walked toward the net. She did not look happy so much as she looked relieved. Next up: air conditioning and sleep. Go to Home Page »
Technology   Milestones in Marissa Mayer’s Tenure as Yahoo’s C.E.O.. Advertisement Advertisement As Yahoo’s chief executive, Ms. Mayer has acquired more than 20 companies, but is now facing a spinoff of the company’s core business in an attempt to rejuvenate the once-dominant Internet giant. UPDATED April 15, 2016 Yahoo and its chief executive abolish the company's work-at-home policy in an effort to reinvigorate the once-dominant Internet pioneer. The move is seen as a reaction by a company in crisis mode, and is immediately met with criticism. “This isn’t a broad industry view on working from home,” according to a statement from the company. “This is about what is right for Yahoo right now.” The company doubles the time new parents are allowed to take off, an olive branch after receiving negative attention for revamping its work-at-home policy. Ms. Mayer, Yahoo’s chief executive, has said that attracting talented workers is crucial for the company’s turnaround. Since arriving at Yahoo, Ms. Mayer has increased the amount of perks employees receive, including handing out smartphones and free lunches in the company cafeteria. Days after the company unveiled the second redesign of its mail service under Ms. Mayer's leadership, thousands of users express their displeasure with the changes. Several groups form online, advocating to change it back. With an estimated 275 million users, Yahoo used to be the most popular email service in the United States. But it has been surpassed in recent years by Google’s Gmail service and Microsoft’s Hotmail offering. Yahoo users suspect the new Yahoo Mail was the company's unsuccessful attempt to mimic Gmail, which Ms. Mayer had a hand in overseeing while she worked at Google. Looking to further restore the company's diminished profile, Ms. Mayer hires Katie Couric to be the "global anchor" for Yahoo, a role that is likely to include interviewing major newsmakers as well as an expansion of the company's news operations. "We both speak the same language and share the same sensibilities," Ms. Couric says of Ms. Mayer. A prominent activist investor, the hedge fund Starboard Value, urges Yahoo to forgo a plan to spin off its stake in Alibaba and instead sell its core business. Starboard argues that the reason for spinning off the Alibaba stake — avoiding taxes while raising money for shareholders — appears to have evaporated after the Internal Revenue Service declined to provide any guidance about the tax liability related to the spinoff. Yahoo drops a plan to spin off its $31 billion stake in Alibaba. Instead, the company will spin off all of its other assets, including its stake in Yahoo Japan, into a new company. After spinning off the company’s 15 percent stake in Alibaba, Ms. Mayer had planned to focus on improving the company’s core business, the sale of advertising that is shown to the roughly one billion users of Yahoo’s apps and websites. Ms. Mayer is effectively back to square one in her attempts to turn around the beleaguered Internet giant.
U.S.   Los Angeles Wildfire. Firefighters battled the Colby fire in Glendora, Calif., which broke out just before 6 a.m. in the Angeles National Forest, about 25 miles northeast of downtown Los Angeles.                   
Business   Sharing Web Links Without Cutting and Pasting. Advertisement Advertisement Q&A By J. D. BIERSDORFER JAN. 17, 2014 Q. Is there an easier way to email a web page link on the Nexus 7 than copying and pasting the link from the browser into the mail app? A. If you are using the standard Chrome browser that comes with the Android operating system on the Nexus 7, go to the page URL you want to send. Tap the icon on the far-right side of the menu bar; the icon looks like a vertical stack of three dots. When the menu opens, tap Share. On the Share menu, you can do multiple things with the URL for the open web page, like posting it to a Twitter, Google Plus or Facebook account, or sending it to another device over a wireless Bluetooth connection. Or easily paste the link into the body of an email by tapping either Gmail or Email — whichever mail program you use on the tablet — on the list of sharing options. A new message will pop open with the link in the body. You just need to enter an address in the To field and add any explanatory text necessary in the body of the message. Other Android-compatible browsers most likely have a similar menu or button for sharing web page links by mail. If you are using Dolphin or another browser on your tablet, check the browser window for a sharing menu or icon. Preparing for the End of Windows XP Q. I’m not sure if my hardware can handle an upgrade from Windows XP to a newer version of Windows. What are my options once Microsoft kills off Windows XP this spring? Advertisement A. As Microsoft has been reminding its customers for many months, support for its Windows XP operating system ends on April 8. (The company has a site dedicated to getting people off its outdated, insecure Internet Explorer 6 browser as well.) While your Windows XP computer will continue to run, Microsoft will not be providing security updates and other patches to keep the system safer from viruses and other malware attacks. The company also announced that it would not be providing an XP-compatible version of its Microsoft Security Essentials software on its site, either. Microsoft has two suggestions for those still using Windows XP: upgrade the operating system or buy a new PC. The system requirements for Windows 8.1, the latest operating system, may be a little high for older hardware. You need a machine with at least a 1-gigahertz processor, 1 gigabyte of memory, 16 gigabytes of hard drive space and a graphics card compatible with DirectX9 and the Windows Display Driver Model (WDDM) software. Microsoft’s site has a tutorial on potentially upgrading from Windows XP, including links to an upgrade assistant program that checks your current machine to see if it can run Windows 8.1. You can check to see if your older programs work on Windows 8.1 on the Compatibility Center page. If neither of these options sounds appealing or possible, you have other choices. You can continue on with Windows XP with third-party security software, although you may find fewer sites, services and programs that continue to work with an operating system that was first released in 2001. Although it may take some heavy lifting and expertise, some people have found extended life for old hardware by installing the open-source Linux operating system, which tends to have less-intensive system requirements than other operating systems. The jump to Linux may not be for everyone, especially those with the need to run Windows-only programs, but you can still use word-processing programs, browse the web, handle email and work with unrestricted digital photo, video and music files. Some Linux distributions like Ubuntu (which has a guide to switching from Windows) and Linux Mint are popular and relatively user-friendly. Go to Home Page »
Food   Melissa Clark. The author and cook Melissa Clark takes you into her kitchen to show you how easy it can be to make exquisite and delicious meals.          Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics Obama, Dancing with the Star (Wars) Cuban Ballet School in Motion Best of Obama's Correspondents' Dinner Speech This Week’s Movies: May 6, 2016 Welfare and the Politics of Poverty Fort McMurray Wildfire Under Investigation Canada Wildfire Prompts Mass Evacuations Why It’s Hard to Keep the Pounds Off Cruz Responds to Trump’s Paternal Dig
Foreign   What They Said: Rahul Gandhi’s Speech at Congress Executive Meeting. Advertisement   NEW DELHI – In an unusually passionate speech at the Indian National Congress’s national meeting on Friday, Rahul Gandhi praised the governing party as the defenders of the people’s will and criticized the main opposition as being undemocratic. Breaking from his usual calm demeanor, Mr. Gandhi accused the Bharatiya Janata Party of “subverting democratic institutions” and “lighting the fires of communal hatred.” In an apparent jibe at Narendra Modi, the B.J.P.’s prime ministerial candidate, Mr. Gandhi said, “We do not respond by proposing either that the structures of democracy be handed over to one man or that they be viciously destroyed.” His speech came after the decision by his mother, Sonia Gandhi, president of the Congress Party, to keep to the party’s tradition of not naming a prime ministerial candidate before the elections. Instead, Mr. Gandhi, the Congress vice-president, will head the party’s campaign committee for the elections. As Mr. Gandhi stepped up to address hundreds of workers at the party’s one-day national executive meeting, he was greeted by a thundering clamor. However, even as shouts of “Rahul P.M.! Rahul P.M.!” went up, Mr. Gandhi, the scion of the powerful Gandhi family demurred. “It is written in the constitution that the prime minister is elected by the members of Parliament. We are a democratic party and we function in a democratic way,” said Mr. Gandhi. Here are some of the responses to Mr. Gandhi’s speech: Inder Malhotra, political commentator:  “His pitch was very fierce and high. Part of the purpose was because the Congress rank and file are very demoralized. They expect defeat in the elections. This is a kind of a pep talk for them, to say that there is a battle ahead but the battle is not lost. The second purpose is that though he is not officially designated as the prime ministerial candidate of the Congress Party, there is not the least bit of doubt that if the Congress Party is able to muster a narrow majority, the prime minister is Rahul Gandhi. If they do not, he can be the leader of opposition.” Neerja Chowdhury, senior journalist and political analyst:  “The speech was a different, more confident Rahul Gandhi, passionate, and he laid out a vision for the Congress Party. He gave an indication that he will now be in the lead. The Congress is now entering the Rahul phase; even the decision was made not to project him as the prime ministerial candidate for strategic reasons. There was a time when he had appeal for the younger generation, but somewhere he lost the plot on the way, and A.A.P. [Aam Aadmi Party] and Narendra Modi stepped into the vacuum in leadership. One reason he has not clicked is that he is an on-and-off politician. He would have an intensive phase of campaigning and engagement with the party, then he would disappear. Now he is saying he is here to stay, and if he really lives up to that, then it will remain to be seen how things change for Congress. What he was doing today at the A.I.C.C. [All India Congress Committee] session was to energize the worker of the Congress because it has been a very demotivated party of late.” Arun Jaitley, leader of opposition in the Rajya Sabha and senior B.J.P. leader, via Twitter:  “In 25 years, a Gandhi has not been the PM of this country. India, indeed, is changing. The Gandhis can control a party but not the nation.” Sanjay Kaul, B.J.P. Delhi spokesman:  “The Congress Party has known that Rahul Gandhi holds no capital anymore. Everyone is this country knows that. At no point has he looked as a leader. And by all estimates, the Congress is in no position to win the elections. The Gandhi family are not risk-takers and they do not lead from the front. They have used people as their props. The Congress Party has also been an exhibition for how they cut leaders to size in their respective states.” Girish Kuber, editor at Loksatta, a Marathi-language newspaper:  “He is playing to the typical ploy that every Indian politician employs, what has been called the politics of renunciation. He is taking the family tradition a step further because when Sonia Gandhi was sure that she will not get the chance to rule the country, she has talked about the inner voice. And now he is making these vague statements. Now the real issue is if Congress loses. This will be a real test for Rahul Gandhi. He will only emerge as a real leader in 2019. Projecting Rahul Gandhi as the prime minister did not make sense for the Congress. In fact, it helps Congress save Rahul for the real battle in 2019. That is Congress’s strategy.” Malavika Vyawahare contributed reporting. India’s national elections began April 7 and will continue on nine separate dates until May 12, with results expected to be announced on May 16. The vote is the world’s largest, with 814 million eligible voters set to choose 543 members of the lower house of Parliament. The other two seats will be appointed by the president. This election is widely considered to be India’s most consequential since 1977. India Ink will be moving to the World page of The New York Times. Read more… A memorial ceremony at the Imphal War Cemetery in Manipur to honor the soldiers who died during World War II.Read more… The newly elected prime minister reaches out to the public in a blog post about his first 30 days in office.Read more… Newborns whose mothers are unable to breastfeed are given stored breast milk to protect them from potentially life-threatening infection.Read more… In the final stage of a long decline, Hindustan Motors announced in May that it would suspend production of the Ambassador, a car that was once synonymous with style and status.Read more… This report on India from the journalists of The New York Times and a pool of talented writers in India and beyond provides unbiased, authoritative reporting on the country and its place in the world. India Ink also strives to be a virtual meeting point for discussion of this complex, fast-changing democracy – its politics, economy, culture and everyday life. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Health   The Weekly Health Quiz. Advertisement Advertisement In the news: the obesity paradox, vaccines and probiotics. Test your knowledge of this week’s health news. JAN. 16, 2014 Toby Bilanow/The New York Times
Movies   Movie Review: 'Generation War'. The Times critic A. O. Scott reviews “Generation War.”          
Science   Orange Is the New Green Sign Up for the Running Email. Advertisement   Martha Rose Shulman on healthful cooking. Orange is the color of the week in my kitchen, as it has been since the fall and will be throughout the winter at my farmers’ market. I’m making oven fries with sweet potatoes, roasting and simmering carrots and winter squash with seasonings I haven’t used before with these vegetables and finding new ways to enjoy grated carrot salads, which have always been a weakness of mine. Sometimes markets can look bleak in winter, but there’s nothing drab about carrots, sweet potatoes and winter squash; I’m finding that there is a lot I can do with these nutrient-dense vegetables. Nutrient-dense they are. In a recent study published by the Dutch National Institute for Public Health and the Environment, investigators looked at the relationship between cardiovascular disease and the colors of fruits and vegetables consumed. The question that the designers of the study were asking was whether the color of fruits and vegetables, which reflect the presence of bioactive compounds, can be associated with protection against cardiovascular disease. Their conclusion was that a high intake of all four color groups — green, orange, red and white — and especially red and orange fruits and vegetables may be protective against cardiovascular disease. There is a lot that researchers are still uncovering about the compounds in orange vegetables. We do know that the pigments reflect the presence of beta-carotene, and not surprisingly, all three of these vegetables are excellent sources of vitamin A. They are very good to excellent sources of vitamins C and K, as well as very good sources of potassium and manganese. We know they are excellent sources of other phytonutrients that show some antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties, like lutein, zeaxanthin and lycopene. And those are just the ones we are familiar with; there are plenty that are still under study in these delicious vegetables. Carrot, Squash and Potato Ragout With Thai Flavors: A colorful ragout that works on its own or over rice. Roasted Carrots With Turmeric and Cumin: A delicious way to enjoy carrots, as a side or on their own. Roasted Sweet Potato Oven Fries: There are a lot of things to like about these delicious sweet wedges. Grated Carrot Salad With Dates and Oranges: A fruity carrot salad, rich in vitamin C. Turkish Pumpkin Soup: An intriguingly sweet winter squash soup. Your health questions answered by Times journalists and experts. Your Questions | All » Get Well's Running email for practical tips, expert advice, exclusive content and a bit of motivation delivered to your inbox every week to help you on your running journey. Coming soon. How much do you know about the amazing things that go on in your gut? Take our quiz to find out about the creepy, crawly critters living in your home. What surface is the most friendly to the flu virus? Where’s the best place to stand when you’re talking to a sick person? How does sleep affect health, relationships and well-being? The “Reading the Mind in the Eyes Test” measures ability to understand others’ emotional states. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   N.F.L. Conference Championship Matchups. Advertisement Advertisement By BENJAMIN HOFFMANJAN. 17, 2014 Patriots at Broncos 3 p.m. Sunday, CBS Line: Broncos by 6 In Tom Brady’s first start in the N.F.L., he defeated Peyton Manning. Brady has continued to be a thorn in Manning’s side, compiling a sparkling 10-4 record (2-1 in the postseason) against him. The gesticulating Manning now leads the record-setting Denver offense, but like so many of his past teams, this one is overhyped because of a great offense masking a mediocre defense. It would be surprising for Brady to break a sweat about this game. One key to Brady’s confidence, other than his good looks, his large bank account, his Hall of Fame-worthy career and his supermodel wife, is the sudden emergence of a dominant New England running game. LeGarrette Blount, known mostly for ending his career at Oregon prematurely by punching an opponent, has become the type of runner that Patriots offenses have frequently lacked. In Week 17, the 6-foot, 250-pound Blount ran for 189 yards and 2 touchdowns against the overmatched Buffalo Bills. In a divisional playoff win over the Indianapolis Colts, Blount showed his success was no fluke, rushing for 166 yards and 4 touchdowns. He did not rush more than 14 times in a game until Week 16, but over the last three games he has averaged 6.7 yards a carry, gaining much of his yardage on hard runs between the tackles. That type of production, aided by a competent second running back in Stevan Ridley, takes the pressure off Brady, who was sacked 40 times this season. If given time to throw, Brady has shown he can work with the pint-size Julian Edelman and Danny Amendola as his main receiving threats. They may not make anyone forget the physicality of Rob Gronkowski, but they have consistently gotten the job done for New England. The last time Brady and Manning met for the A.F.C. championship, in the 2006 season, Manning and the Colts won in Indianapolis. Now Manning and the Broncos are favored because their offense has been loaded since Day 1 and the Patriots have had to cobble one together. Advertisement The game is in Denver, and New England has been a mediocre road team. In almost every way, it looks like a season to remember for Manning and one to forget for Brady. But Brady has been here before and relishes the chance to be an underdog. “I’m sure no one’s going to pick us to win,” Brady told reporters. He was wrong. Pick: Patriots   49ers at Seahawks 6:30 p.m. Sunday, Fox Line: Seahawks by 4 San Francisco’s NaVorro Bowman is a legitimate contender for defensive player of the year, and he can also find the essence of a game in a few words. “Long story short: They know us, we know them,” Bowman said of the rival Seahawks. “We got to go there. We all know the history. But this is the Super Bowl.” Either the Broncos or the Patriots will make an interesting Super Bowl opponent, but in a face-off reminiscent of the great 49ers-Cowboys postseason matchups of the early 1990s, the two most complete teams in the N.F.L. will be playing for the N.F.C. championship. The similarities between the 49ers and Seahawks have been noted time and again: bruising running backs, suffocating defenses, brash head coaches. Recent history has favored whichever team is at home. With that in mind, playing in Seattle is a large hurdle for San Francisco to overcome. In their last two meetings there, the Seahawks have beaten the 49ers by a combined score of 71-16. San Francisco has come a long way since a Week 2 thrashing by the Seahawks. The 49ers closed the regular season with six consecutive wins before winning two road games in the playoffs. Finally playing at full strength, with receiver Michael Crabtree showing that he was the missing piece of the puzzle, the 49ers are undoubtedly eager to change their luck in Seattle. Advertisement The main question mark will be Colin Kaepernick’s ability to manage the game at the line of scrimmage. With a remarkable combination of size, strength and quickness, Kaepernick can be among the game’s most dangerous players. But he continually runs the play clock down while making adjustments, regularly burning timeouts or incurring delay-of-game penalties. That problem grows worse in Seattle, where the fans are extremely loud and know when to raise the noise level. The N.F.L. rules do not protect read-option quarterbacks the way they do drop-back passers, so the odds are that neither Kaepernick nor his Seahawks counterpart Russell Wilson will do as much damage on the ground as they did in last year’s playoffs. With all other things being equal, as they seem to be, Kaepernick’s problems in getting plays off could prove to be the difference in the game. Pick: Seahawks Times are Eastern. Picks do not reflect the betting line. A version of this article appears in print on January 19, 2014, on page SP3 of the New York edition with the headline: N.F.L. Conference Championship Matchups. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
U.S.   Obama’s Changes to Government Surveillance. Advertisement Advertisement By JOSH KELLER, ALICIA PARLAPIANO, DAVID E. SANGER and CHARLIE SAVAGE JAN. 17, 2014 President Obama announced on Friday that he will place new limits on intelligence agencies’ bulk collection of phone call records. But he rejected some other recommendations to rein in surveillance made by a panel of outside advisers. Related Article Documents released in June reveal that the N.S.A. has been systematically collecting logs of every Americans’ phone calls and storing the data for five years. Agency analysts may examine call records of people up to three links (or “hops”) removed from any number for which they decide there is “reasonable, articulable suspicion” of ties to terrorism. Mr. Obama says he wants to find a way not to have the government collect records in bulk, but rather keep them in private hands. In the meantime, analysts will now be able to examine only records of people two hops away from a suspect number. And the N.S.A. must obtain a court order ahead of time from a judge who agrees that the standard of suspicion has been met, with an exception for after-the-fact court review in a fast-moving exigency. There are two options for doing this. One is to require each telecommunications provider to retain its customers’ calling records for a certain time and store the data in a way that the government could quickly get access it – and cross-reference it with other providers’ records. The other is to create a private consortium that would comingle the records. Mr. Obama says there are difficulties with both options, and has directed his administration to study options and work with Congress to come up with a solution. Mr. Obama has rejected the idea of scrapping the program entirely, as some lawmakers and civil libertarians have called for, saying he wants to retain its capabilities but restructure it to reduce the possibility of abuses. Aides said Mr. Obama would like to get the N.S.A. out of the business of holding the data at all, so it was deemed to make little sense to order the agency to purge the data more quickly. That leaves open the question of how long telecommunications providers or a consortium would be required to retain the records. Mr. Obama said he would ask the attorney general and the director of national intelligence to come up with ideas for additional restrictions on government’s ability to retain, search and use the communications of Americans that were “incidentally” collected without a warrant. National Security Letters are subpoenas the F.B.I. can use to compel businesses to turn over a range of records about their customers, like financial transactions or data on communications, while gagging the recipients from talking about them. The F.B.I. uses the device tens of thousands of times a year, and it objected to losing the power to issues them unless a court approved. Mr. Obama rejected the recommendation to impose a court approval requirement. But he is ending the open-ended secrecy, saying the gag orders will expire after a fixed period in most cases. And he said providers would be allowed to say more to the public about the scope and scale of the orders they receive. Disclosures that the N.S.A. has been eavesdropping on foreign leaders, including the cellphone of Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, led to a diplomatic crisis for the Obama administration in October. Mr. Obama said he would generally ban the practice for “close friends and allies” and a senior administration official said this list included “dozens” of leaders of foreign countries, without specifying them. The administration did not address whether the U.S. would spy on other top officials from those countries. Recent disclosures revealed that the N.S.A. collects vast amounts of information from overseas telecommunications networks, vacuuming up metadata in bulk and intercepting the contents of communications. Mr. Obama said that new safeguards would limit the duration that the government can hold personal information about foreigners and restrict its use. While he acknowledged the United State’s responsibility to ask “tough questions” about its technological capabilities, he made clear that foreigners overseas do not enjoy the same protections as U.S. citizens. “This is not unique to America,” he said. “Few, if any, spy agencies around the world constrain their activities beyond their own borders.” A senior official said the advocates would be called on only in cases presenting novel and important privacy law issues. The panel would apparently not have the authority to monitor the court’s caseload and independently decide when a case warranted its presence. Currently, Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr., selects all the judges who serve a term of extra duty on the secret court, and he has used that power to overwhelmingly pick Republican-appointed judges. Critics have called for diversifying the court by having other Supreme Court justices, or the chief judges of the appeals courts, play a role. Administration officials said that Mr. Obama would accept that kind of a change if Congress made it. In July, The New York Times reported that the N.S.A. had been collecting previously undiscovered “zero day” flaws in common computer programs and using them for mounting cyberattacks. White House says the recommendation is now under review by the security council to “review and, as necessary, adjust existing processes.’’ Documents released in September revealed that the agency had been working to weaken encryption standards so it could more easily crack secure systems. White House says its cybersecurity and science and technology offices are reviewing the issues and “we support the recommendation’s aim to protect the standards for commercial encryption.’’ In 2009, Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates combined into one position the heads of the N.S.A., which is responsible for gathering intelligence, and the Cyber Command, the military's cyberwarfare unit. Mr. Obama has already rejected the recommendation to split command of the N.S.A. from the Cyber Command. The public debate over the scope of N.S.A. surveillance started when a former N.S.A. contractor, Edward J. Snowden, secretly made copies of four hard drives worth of top-secret documents and then leaked them. While Mr. Obama acknowledged Mr. Snowden’s role in starting the debate over privacy and national security, he did not address recommendations to secure classified information.
Business   ‘Bachelor’ Star’s Comments on Gays Spark Uproar. Advertisement Advertisement By BILL CARTERJAN. 18, 2014 PASADENA, Calif. — ABC faced a potential crisis on Saturday over one of its longest-running hits when a storm erupted here over homophobic comments made by the star of the reality series “The Bachelor.” In an interview at a press party, Juan Pablo Galavis, the latest bachelor tasked with picking a possible mate from among a cast of 25 beautiful women, told the editor of the website The TV Page that he was opposed to the idea of ABC producing a season of the show with a gay bachelor. Among other reasons, he said, “I don’t think it is a good example for kids to watch that on TV.” Of gay relationships, he added, “They are more pervert, in a sense.” (Mr. Galavis’s primary language is Spanish.) Mr. Galavis was among a gaggle of ABC stars who turned up for some informal conversations with reporters over cocktails Friday night at a semiannual gathering of the Television Critics Association. He spoke with Sean Daly, the editor of The TV Page, who asked for his opinion on a gay version of the popular reality series. Mr. Daly posted a recording of the interview on his site. The reaction to Mr. Galavis’s remarks was quick and intensely critical, with numerous reporters and commenters on Twitter denouncing them both as insensitive and, especially, inappropriate, given that Mr. Galavis is participating in a show that compels him to engage in romantic encounters with multiple women over a period of several weeks. ABC and the studio that produces “The Bachelor,” Warner Brothers, issued a statement on Saturday, saying, “Juan Pablo’s comments were careless, thoughtless and insensitive, and in no way reflect the views of the network, the show’s producers or studio.” Mr. Galavis posted an apology on his Facebook page on Saturday. “I want to apologize to all the people I may have offended because of my comments,” he wrote. He went on to say that “I have many gay friends, and one of my closest friends, who’s like a brother, has been a constant in my life, especially during the past five months. The word ‘pervert’ was not what I meant to say, and I am very sorry about it. Everyone knows English is my second language and my vocabulary is not as broad as it is in Spanish and, because of this, sometimes I use the wrong words to express myself.” Advertisement There was no mention by ABC or Warner Brothers of consequences, either for Mr. Galavis or the show. That may be because the show has ticked up in the ratings this season, with the show’s female fan base apparently smitten with Mr. Galavis, a single father and former Venezuelan soccer player. (As has been the program’s recent practice, Mr. Galavis is a former suitor on the “Bachelorette” version of the show. He was not the star’s final selection, but he warmed enough female hearts to be selected as the star of a season of “The Bachelor.”) So far this season, the show’s ratings have been up sharply from the same weeks last year. The premiere hit 8.7 million viewers, up from 6.9 million in 2013. It was a three-year high for the 12-year-old reality series. Mr. Galavis’s interview immediately sparked comparisons to the recent blowup over comments made by Phil Robertson, the patriarch of the family at the center of the A&E hit series “Duck Dynasty.” In that instance, the network reacted to what it perceived as homophobic comments by putting Mr. Robertson on indefinite suspension from the show, and then reinstated him after the show’s fans, along with some prominent conservative political voices, attacked the network for what they claimed was an assault on Mr. Robertson’s right to free speech. In the past, “The Bachelor” has openly courted — and even invented — its own controversies to drive ratings. This one seemed unexpected and spontaneous, however. ABC will undoubtedly watch closely to see how the show’s ratings are affected when it is back on the air Monday night. When “Duck Dynasty” returned this week after its own controversy, its ratings were down 28 percent. Go to Home Page »
Foreign   India: 18 Die in Stampede in Mumbai. Advertisement Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSJAN. 18, 2014 At least 18 people died early Saturday in a stampede as tens of thousands of members of a Muslim sect gathered to mourn the death of their spiritual leader in Mumbai, according to news reports. The Press Trust of India news agency said that at least 40 people were also injured when mourners thronged the home of Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin, the head of the Dawoodi Bohra Muslim community, a small Shiite sect. Mr Burhanuddin died Friday at the age of 102. The police in Mumbai were not immediately available to confirm the reports, which were also carried by TV stations. A version of this brief appears in print on January 18, 2014, on page A9 of the New York edition with the headline: India: 18 Die in Stampede in Mumbai. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Sports   Though Messi Is Back, Neymar Is Out. Advertisement Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSJAN. 18, 2014 Lionel Messi is back from an injury, but Barcelona lost Neymar for three to four weeks because of a sprained ankle. He was hurt in Thursday’s 2-0 Copa del Rey victory at Getafe. ■ Manchester United Manager David Moyes said Wayne Rooney would miss Sunday’s Premier League match against Chelsea because of a groin muscle injury. Robin van Persie, who has not played since Dec. 10, has also been ruled out of the game with a thigh injury. A version of this brief appears in print on January 18, 2014, on page D2 of the New York edition with the headline: Neymar Expected to Miss Weeks. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Foreign   Turkey Extends Purge of Officials. Advertisement Advertisement By REUTERSJAN. 18, 2014 ANKARA, Turkey — Turkey has extended a purge of official institutions to the banking and telecoms regulators and state television, firing dozens of executives in moves that appear to broaden Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s response to a corruption investigation. Thousands of police officers, dozens of prosecutors and some state television officials have already been fired by Mr. Erdogan’s government, which is facing its biggest challenge with the corruption investigation. Investigators are believed to have been looking into allegations of corruption at a state-run bank and bribery involving real estate projects. Mr. Erdogan says the investigations are part of an attempted “judicial coup.” His opponents say that the purges are threatening the independence of the judiciary, the police and the media. Go to Home Page »
Society   Amanda Echalaz and Robert Meya. Advertisement Advertisement JAN. 19, 2014 Amanda Echalaz and Robert Kruedener Meya were married Saturday evening at the New Leaf Restaurant in Fort Tryon Park in Manhattan. Sabrina R. Martin, a friend of the couple who was ordained by the American Marriage Ministries for the occasion, officiated at a ceremony that was led by Francis J. Foley III, a senior judge on the Windham District Superior Court in Willimantic, Conn. The bride, 37, will continue to use her name professionally. She is an operatic soprano who made her Metropolitan Opera debut in New York on Thursday evening as Cio-Cio-San in Puccini’s “Madama Butterfly.” Last year, she performed the role at the Lyric Opera in Chicago, and the title role in Puccini’s “Tosca” at the Royal Opera House at Covent Garden in London. She graduated from the Royal Northern College of Music in Manchester, England. She is the daughter of Ann C. Echalaz and Arthur J. Echalaz of Lewes, England. The groom, 40, is the director of external affairs for the Santa Fe Opera in Santa Fe, N.M., where he oversees fund-raising operations and campaigns. He graduated from Georgetown and received a master’s in arts management from Carnegie Mellon. He is a son of Dr. Yolanta E. Meya of Nice, France, and Wilhelm W. Meya of Lyme, Conn. The couple met during the summer of 2012 at the Santa Fe Opera, where Ms. Echalaz made her American operatic debut in the title role of “Tosca,” directed by Stephen Barlow. A version of this article appears in print on January 19, 2014, on page ST13 of the New York edition with the headline: Amanda Echalaz, Robert Meya. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Sports   Serena Williams Tumbles in Australian Open’s Fourth Round. Advertisement Advertisement By GREG BISHOPJAN. 19, 2014 MELBOURNE, Australia — For almost a year, Serena Williams won professional tennis matches at an improbable 96 percent clip. Since her exit from the 2013 Australian Open, she had played 80 matches and had won 77 of them. As her fourth-round contest in this Australian Open wore on, though, Williams looked less and less like the most dominant player in women’s tennis. She was undone by a flurry of botched backhands, back pain and an opponent, Ana Ivanovic, who played more like a current world No. 1 than a former world No. 1. The crowd, squarely against Williams, rose to its feet and roared at the biggest upset so far in this tournament when the match ended with Ivanovic in front, 4-6, 6-3, 6-3. Williams smiled as she shook her opponent’s hand. Ivanovic had never beaten her — until Sunday. “It’s amazing,” Ivanovic said in her television interview on court. “I just played really well.” Over the first week of the Australian Open, Williams had accumulated records. She set the mark for most match wins in women’s singles at this tournament (61) and most women’s singles matches played (70). Advertisement All the while, she sought an even bigger milestone: an 18th Grand Slam singles championship. That would have put Williams in rare company, tied with Chris Evert and Martina Navratilova for second-most in history, within sight of Steffi Graf and her historic 22 titles. Instead, other numbers surfaced in defeat. Like this one: In a career filled with Grand Slam tournaments, Williams had won the first set and still lost five times in a career that started in 1995. “I made a tremendous amount of errors,” Williams said at her post-match news conference. “Shots I missed that I normally don’t miss.” Williams tried to play down her physical problems, and said she wouldn’t make excuses. However, she added: “I obviously wasn’t hitting the way I normally would hit. Or moving the way I normally would move. I know for a fact I can play so much better than what I did today. I’m not disappointed in anything. I just know I can play ten times better than I played today.” Williams cruised through the first three rounds of this Australian Open behind a succession of swift victories in which she did not drop a set. She blew off one scheduled on-court interview after her third-round victory and offered an oblique explanation that she was busy and other tasks awaited. She confirmed after Sunday’s match that she was having back pain. Whatever the reason, she looked off on Sunday, even as she fought through and took the first set. She did not bend well on the backhand side, and she did not move well, and after she missed a return early in the second set, she bent over in apparent pain. Ivanovic capitalized. Since she won the French Open in 2008, Ivanovic had mostly disappointed. Her last run to a Grand Slam quarterfinal came at the United States Open in 2012. On Sunday, she blitzed Williams from the baseline, matched Williams for serve efficiency and showcased a varied game that kept Williams on the defensive more than usual. Ivanovic dictated how the match unfolded. Advertisement On the big points that Williams won, she often screamed loudly or pumped her fist emphatically, almost as if she was trying to get herself into the match. She stole repeated glances at her box and walked gingerly between points. Williams said she almost pulled out, adding, “I mean, I probably should have.” She gave credit to Ivanovic and said: “It’s not like I gave her the match. I tried to fight the best I could today.” With Williams’s defeat, which ended a 25-match winning streak, the women’s singles draw has opened significantly. Ivanovic, seeded 14th, joined Li Na (4) and Flavia Pennetta (28) as Sunday winners now into the quarterfinals. Li, a two-time finalist, needed only 59 minutes to register a 6-2, 6-0 win over Ekaterina Makarova. Li broke No. 22 Marakova’s serve five times. In the next round, Li will play Pennetta, who beat No. 9 Angelique Kerber, 6-1, 4-6, 7-5. A version of this article appears in print on January 19, 2014, on page SP5 of the New York edition with the headline: After a Week of Toppling Records, Williams Tumbles in the Fourth Round. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Travel   Restaurant Report: Oaxen Krog & Slip in Stockholm. Advertisement Advertisement By ALEXANDER LOBRANOJAN. 17, 2014 Though Copenhagen gets most of the regional limelight, Stockholm has quietly emerged as a gastronomic destination on par with the Danish capital. One of the strongest sets of players in that mix is the chef Magnus Ek and his wife, Agneta Green, who closed Oaxen, the restaurant they’d founded in 1994 on its namesake island in the southern part of the Stockholm archipelago, and moved to a striking new water’s-edge location on Djurgarden, an island in central Stockholm, last May. Here Mr. Ek’s cuisine — an indigenous gastronomic style based on witty modern riffs on the country’s own taste palate, showcasing its best local produce — is parsed out in two different settings. At Oaxen Krog, the chef serves ambitious six- and 10-course tasting menus, while Oaxen Slip, his casual-dining restaurant next door, offers dishes like deep-fried herring with herb vinegar. “Oaxen Slip is about having a good time with friends in an easygoing environment, while at Oaxen Krog the food is intended to be the focus of the experience,” Mr. Ek said. The two restaurants have big picture windows surrounded by an industrial but well-groomed décor that intentionally nods at the former shipyard that occupied the site. These simple visuals serve as a preview to Mr. Ek’s cooking philosophy at Krog, which intends to quietly exalt his ingredients through a posture of gastronomic humility. Still, the first course of a recent 10-course tasting menu stunned with a composition suggesting the cool drama of an Ingmar Bergman film. Oysters with curds of soured milk and kohlrabi in soured whey had all of the jarring complexity of a troubled but passionate relationship. The meal tacked back to a Swedish wholesomeness with a single plump flash-fried langoustine in a cream of fermented button mushrooms with sour cream and dill. Not every dish worked — spider crab cooked with bladderwrack, a seaweed, in a seafood sauce seemed overwrought — but yogurt-roasted cod cheeks with oak moss, seaweed, cockles and black garlic cream had a haiku-like perfection. Those seafood dishes were generally more interesting than Mr. Ek’s meat ones, though a heather-roasted saddle of lamb with pickled chives, warm lamb lard and puréed leeks had an alluring rustic elegance. An article last Sunday about Oaxen Krog & Slip in Stockholm misstated the given name of the chef and owner there. He is Magnus Ek, not Markus Ek. Oaxen Krog & Slip, Beckholmsvagen 26; 46-8-551-53105; oaxen.com. Six-course menu, 1,650 kroner ($250 at 6.55 kroner to the dollar); 10-course menu, 1,950 kroner. A version of this article appears in print on January 19, 2014, on page TR4 of the New York edition with the headline: Swedish and Coolly Dramatic. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
U.S.   The Federal Budget, Per Person The Federal Budget, Per Person. Advertisement Advertisement By WILSON ANDREWS and ALICIA PARLAPIANO JAN. 19, 2014 The House and Senate last week passed a hefty spending bill that included $1.1 trillion in discretionary spending for 2014 and provided funds for some mandatory programs (though the bill does not control the levels of that spending). Because it can be hard to comprehend the scale of large government programs, here is a look at a selection of those included in the bill (and a couple of others), expressed in cost per U.S. resident. By Wilson Andrews and Alicia ParlapianoJan. 18, 2014 The House and Senate last week passed a hefty spending bill that included $1.1 trillion in discretionary spending for 2014 and provided funds for some mandatory programs (though the bill does not control the levels of that spending). Because it can be hard to comprehend the scale of large government programs, here is a look at a selection of those included in the bill (and a couple of others), expressed in cost per U.S. resident. Agriculture Food stamps (SNAP) Total: $82 billion Mandatory spending  Agriculture Child school lunch program $19.5 billion Mandatory spending  Agriculture Loans and direct payments to farmers $12.5 billion Mandatory spending  Agriculture Crop insurance $9.5 billion Mandatory spending  Agriculture Food and Drug Administration $2.5 billion  Agriculture Food and Safety Inspection Service $1 billion  Commerce National Weather Service $954 million  Commerce Census Bureau $945 million  Education Pell grants $23 billion  Financial Services Internal Revenue Service $11.5 billion  Financial Services Supreme Court $86 million  Financial Services Compensation of the president $450,000 Mandatory spending  Health National Institutes of Health $30 billion  Health Head Start $8.5 billion  Health Centers for Disease Control and Prevention $7 billion  Homeland Security Customs and Border Protection $10.5 billion  Homeland Security Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) $10 billion  Homeland Security Coast Guard $10 billion  Homeland Security U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement $5.5 billion  Homeland Security Transportation Security Administration (TSA) $5 billion  Homeland Security United States Secret Service $1.5 billion  Interior & Environment Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) $8 billion  Interior & Environment National Park Service $2.5 billion  Interior & Environment Smithsonian Institution $805 million  Justice Federal Bureau of Investigation $8.5 billion  Justice Federal prison system $7 billion  Justice Drug Enforcement Administration $2 billion  Legislative Branch House of Representatives $1 billion  Legislative Branch Senate $859.5 million  Military Total, including war spending $572 billion  Retirement Benefits Social Security $848 billion Mandatory spending Social Security is fully financed through other legislation and was not addressed in this bill. Total includes disability insurance. Retirement Benefits Medicare $505 billion Mandatory spending This is the total cost of Medicare for 2014, but only a portion of it was provided through the bill. Science NASA $17.5 billion  Science National Science Foundation $7 billion  State & Foreign Affairs Global health programs $8.5 billion  State & Foreign Affairs Military assistance to Israel $3 billion  State & Foreign Affairs Assistance to Egypt $1.5 billion  State & Foreign Affairs Peace Corps $379 million  Transportation Federal Highway Administration $41 billion Through limits on obligations from the Highway Trust Fund and exempt contract authority. Transportation Federal Aviation Administration $15.5 billion Through appropriations and obligations from the Airport and Airway Trust Fund. Transportation Amtrak grants $1.5 billion  Veterans Affairs Veterans compensation, pensions and benefits $85 billion Mandatory spending  Veterans Affairs Veterans health care funding $55 billion Most of the appropriation for fiscal 2014 was provided in the fiscal 2013 bill. Sources: Congressional Quarterly; Congressional Budget Office; Office of Management and Budget; Source: The Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget; U.S. Census population clock An earlier version of this feature mislabeled the category under which Global health programs, Military assistance to Israel, Assistance to Egypt and the Peace Corps fall. They are categorized as State and Foreign Affairs, not as part of the State Department.
Business   More Monster and Hats. Advertisement Our challenge this week was suggested by Chris Roat, who calls it “one of my favorite puzzles of the year.” And Dr. Roat sees a lot of puzzles — he’s an active participant in Bay Area puzzle competitions and a longtime Google employee currently up to something top-secret at Google X. His suggestion for this week is a continuation of our recent Andrew Luck Monster Problem. Put on your headgear and get ready for — More Monster and Hats Two people find themselves stuck on a remote island. One day, a terrible monster appears. The monster says that he intends to eat the pair, but will give them the following chance to survive: Later that day, the monster will line them up face-to-face. The monster will then place either a black or white hat on each person’s head. Each person can see the hat on his or her counterpart, but cannot see his or her own hat. The monster will then ask both people at once to simultaneously guess the color of his or her own hat. The person can say only one word — either “white” or “black.” If both people are wrong, the monster will devour them on the spot; Otherwise they can go free. The two people have all afternoon to plan their strategy. The question is — what should they do? That’s it for the puzzle this week. If you’re looking for Gary Hewitt’s Enhancer to optimize your Numberplay experience, please be patient — Mr. Hewitt is revamping the tool to support The Times’s new blog format. Finally, do send your favorite hat-and-monster puzzle to gary.antonick@NYTimes.com. Solution    As some discovered, the game is 100% solvable – no randomization/guessing is needed to increase the odds of winning. It’s true even for the n colors, n people generalization. And as Daniel Finkel alludes to in the 2-hat case, the rock-solid strategy will lead to exactly one person guessing correctly. In the two-hat case, it’s easiest to explain to people that either the hats are the “same” or “different.” I find that is the paradigm shift people will have trouble with. Then the solution is deciding which of the two players will guess “same” and which will guess “different,” based on what they see. The astonishing solution, then, is to have one person always call out whatever color hat they see on the other person’s head, and that other person call out the opposite color of what they see. This will, incredibly, always allow one person to guess his or her own hat color correctly, and thereby saving both from being devoured by the terrible monster. An introduction to Smart Contacts, a recently announced Google X project:  Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… David Poole has something up his sleeve.Read more… Jacob Stulberg is all wet. Don’t tell him I said that.Read more… The return of John Westwig.Read more… Are you as smart as a fifth-grader? See if you can solve these algebra challenges without using algebra.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   Aam Aadmi Protest Shuts Down Central Delhi. Advertisement   NEW DELHI — The heart of India’s capital came to a standstill on Monday after Arvind Kejriwal, the Delhi chief minister, and members of his Aam Aadmi Party squared off with the central government in a public demonstration to demand that the Delhi police should be under state, not federal, control. As Delhi police officers barricaded the roads in central Delhi, Mr. Kejriwal also called on all residents to join him in a 10-day protest against the Delhi Police Department for failing to protect women. In a speech, he contended that the state government would be better at running the city’s police force, which he criticized as corrupt and inefficient under the central government’s administration. The standoff began early on Monday when seven lawmakers from the Aam Aadmi, or Common Man, Party, led by Mr. Kejriwal, headed out to the Home Ministry, which oversees the Delhi police, to demand the resignations of three station house officers who they said had failed to protect women in three reported cases: a gang rape of a Danish tourist, the burning of a woman over a lack of dowry and an alleged prostitution racket. However, they were prevented by the Delhi police from staging a protest in front of the ministry. The ministry, headed by Sushil Kumar Shinde, had issued a prohibitory order against the demonstration, citing a law that forbids the gathering of more than five people. The Delhi police shut down four subway stops in central Delhi and set up barricades to seal off the North Block, which houses the Home Ministry and other government offices nearby. Chaotic scenes played out as a heavy contingent of police officials surrounded Mr. Kejriwal and Aam Aadmi ministers and kept them at the railway building, known as Rail Bhavan. When the Aam Aadmi leaders realized they would not be allowed to reach the Home Ministry, Mr. Kejriwal decided to urge the public to join him at Rail Bhavan to demand that the central government hand over control of the Delhi police to the state government. In a speech, he accused Mr. Shinde of being corrupt and called on the “honest” police officials to take off their uniforms and join the side of the common man. The Aam Aadmi Party has accused the Delhi police of allowing a drug and prostitution ring allegedly run by four Ugandan woman to fester. Last week, the state’s law minister, Somnath Bharti of Aam Aadmi, demanded that the police arrest the four women during a midnight raid on their house, but the officers refused, citing the lack of a warrant and a lack of evidence. “No sex or drug racket can take place without complicity of police,” Mr. Kejriwal said. While women’s rights activists and political opponents have accused Mr. Bharti of racism, his party has backed his actions. On Monday, Mr. Kejriwal held up a letter he said was from the Uganda High Commission, stating that several girls from Uganda being brought into India on the promise of work and education were being trafficked. But Syed Akbaruddin, the External Affairs Ministry spokesman, said the Uganda High Commission denied sending any such letter. So far, the central government has refused to meet any of Mr. Kejriwal’s demands. Mr. Shinde said Monday that action would only be taken after a judicial inquiry against the three police officers was completed. He also said that security of the capital was too vital to be delegated to the Delhi government. Maxwell Pereira, former joint police commissioner in Delhi, said the chaos and sheer numbers of the Aam Aadmi demonstration were a security threat to the capital, especially in the run-up to Republic Day on Jan. 26. He also said that the chief minister was himself breaking the law by staging the protest, which has been prohibited. Mr. Kejriwal’s criticism of Mr. Shinde has put the Aam Aadmi’s coalition partner in the state government, the Congress Party, in an awkward position because the home minister is a Congress member. But though it opposed the Aam Aadmi rally, the Congress Party said Monday that it would not withdraw its support to the party. Mr. Kejriwal’s political rivals immediately criticized the Aam Aadmi Party for the disruption to the city, saying that Mr. Kejriwal should act like a statesman and stop shouting on the streets as he did when he was an anticorruption activist. “Did the AAP form a government to wreck the system from within?” Arun Jaitley, senior leader of the Bharatiya Janata Party, said on Twitter, referring to Aam Aadmi. Responding to critics who called him an anarchist, Mr. Kejriwal said, “Yes, I am. Today, I will spread anarchy in the house of Mr. Shinde, the same way he has spread anarchy in our households.” The closure of the subway stations inconvenienced commuters in the morning, and the road closures snarled city traffic at night. Sibi Arasu, 26, who had been unaware of the subway closures, said it was annoying to look for alternative modes of transportation in the morning. Mr. Arasu, a media professional, said he was 20 minutes late after taking an auto-rickshaw for 40 rupees, or 65 U.S. cents,one way — a cost that could get expensive if the protests continued for 10 days, he said. In the afternoon, despite growing concerns of the Delhi police over security near government buildings, Mr. Kejriwal refused to move the protest to another location. By late afternoon, the number of Aam Aadmi members began to swell, and some began scuffling with Delhi police officers, whose numbers were also growing.The party said in a statement said that the state transport minister, Saurabh Bhardwaj, was detained and another lawmaker, Akhilesh Tripathi, was beaten up. By evening, even as it was getting colder and darker, the crowds were growing at Rail Bhavan, many to support Aam Aadmi, but about 20 were there to protest Mr. Bharti’s treatment of the Ugandan women. And as people got ready to return home from work, the city was struck by long traffic jams, prompting many taxi and auto-rickshaw passengers to get out and walk to their destinations. By 10 p.m., Mr. Kejriwal was still sitting outside Rail Bhavan, surrounded by his supporters. Betwa Sharma is a freelance journalist based in New Delhi. India’s national elections began April 7 and will continue on nine separate dates until May 12, with results expected to be announced on May 16. The vote is the world’s largest, with 814 million eligible voters set to choose 543 members of the lower house of Parliament. The other two seats will be appointed by the president. This election is widely considered to be India’s most consequential since 1977. India Ink will be moving to the World page of The New York Times. Read more… A memorial ceremony at the Imphal War Cemetery in Manipur to honor the soldiers who died during World War II.Read more… The newly elected prime minister reaches out to the public in a blog post about his first 30 days in office.Read more… Newborns whose mothers are unable to breastfeed are given stored breast milk to protect them from potentially life-threatening infection.Read more… In the final stage of a long decline, Hindustan Motors announced in May that it would suspend production of the Ambassador, a car that was once synonymous with style and status.Read more… This report on India from the journalists of The New York Times and a pool of talented writers in India and beyond provides unbiased, authoritative reporting on the country and its place in the world. India Ink also strives to be a virtual meeting point for discussion of this complex, fast-changing democracy – its politics, economy, culture and everyday life. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Movies   The Carpetbagger. Get behind the scenes of Hollywood’s awards season, with close-up looks at Oscar-nominated films and exclusive red-carpet access to the hottest actors, actresses and directors.          Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics Obama, Dancing with the Star (Wars) Cuban Ballet School in Motion Canada Wildfire Prompts Mass Evacuations Fort McMurray Wildfire Under Investigation How Will Obama Spend His Retirement? Why It’s Hard to Keep the Pounds Off Welfare and the Politics of Poverty Cruz Responds to Trump’s Paternal Dig Trudeau Speaks on Canadian Wildfires
Science   A Taste of My Own Manners Sign Up for the Running Email. Advertisement Dr. Perri Klass on family health. When I started my internship, in 1986, I was given a beeper, which was handed over with a certain sense of ceremony and a certain yoke of obligation. Before cellphones were omnipresent, the beeper was a badge of professional importance: I’m a doctor — life and death depend on my instant availability. If you were talking to a patient and your beeper went off, it was understood to be a medical summons; you were entitled — and expected — to step out of the room and answer. As I went through residency and began practicing, I would never have thought of silencing my beeper when I was seeing a patient, even though I was often paged about things that were not of immediate life-or-death importance. (“Mom, I couldn’t find my social studies project this morning. Did you put it somewhere?”) Nowadays, every patient I see is just as reachable in the exam room as I am, and my reactions to their behavior with their cellphones has made me question my own attitudes toward monitoring messages and tolerating interruptions. I asked Judith Martin, who writes the Miss Manners books and columns, what the etiquette considerations are here, and she let me know in no uncertain terms that doctors themselves traded on their greater prestige in the doctor-patient relationship to create a culture that allowed rudeness — and that rudeness is now being returned. “We are reaping the punishment of doctors having used these manners when patients could not,” she said. It’s not just doctors, of course; it’s a problem outside medical settings as well, she said, with “people keeping one another waiting, ignoring those who are present in favor of taking phone calls.” Now everyone has the equivalent of a beeper, and everyone answers because, after all, it might be an emergency. In the exam room, patients routinely take calls, or at least glance at their phones. And adolescents, needless to say, can go on texting even as they’re answering a doctor’s questions. Manners, morals and medicine intersect in the doctor’s office, in a quotidian interplay of patient imperatives and medical management, politeness and professionalism, patients and patience. What are the ethics of keeping one another waiting? “These issues are hugely important to patient satisfaction, to patient compliance, to patient trust, and to physician peace of mind, or a physician’s positive attitude about work and environment,” said Arthur L. Caplan, director of the bioethics division at NYU Langone Medical Center. “But ethicists spend almost no time thinking about them.” I am not a particularly patient patient, and recently, when I went with my mother to the eye doctor, I found myself getting pretty cranky in the waiting room. After all, we had made the first morning appointment, gotten ourselves out of bed and out into the cold and across town for a 7:30 time slot. Was it possible, I wondered irritably, that the doctor hadn’t even arrived yet? And I went back to the clinic desk to ask once again, in a polite but clearly provocative way, if they knew how much longer it would be. But here is my confession: That agonizing sense of the minutes ticking past, that outraged feeling of cosmic unfairness when an early appointment is not matched by a prompt consummation, it all falls away when I’m on the other side of that clinic desk. Later that very same day, getting ready for my next patient, it made complete sense to me that first I had to read through the child’s medical record on screen — and then, yes, check my messages quickly, and then stand in the hallway and speak to a colleague for a little while — all with the patient and her mother (and the next patient and his mother) sitting in the waiting room and, well, waiting. And keeping children waiting is even more inexcusable than keeping adults waiting; children are not suited for waiting. The truth is, I was in the doctor’s time zone. And I had a feeling of hard-working entitlement that coexisted remarkably easily with the very recent memory of my own sense of outrage at being made to wait. Later that day, while I was asking a 10-year-old girl some questions about her health, her mother’s cellphone rang, with one of those loud, intrusive musical ringtones. I was neither surprised nor outraged when the mother reached into her bag, pulled out the phone and started chatting. But I suspended my conversation with the child and stared questioningly at the mother until she said, “I can’t talk now, we’re with the doctor,” and hung up. But the calls to my phone, as important as they may be to me, are not actually life-or-death patient issues, and I, too, need to turn it off. Dr. Caplan pointed out that part of providing good and professional medical care is treating people properly: “How do I cement trust in this relationship? How do we show respect for one another in a health care relationship where respect is partially an intrinsic good but also important for securing cooperation, compliance, continuity of care?” Sometimes cementing trust and showing respect actually means sitting quietly while a parent takes a phone call and arranges, for example, the pickup that will get her home after that too-long wait in the exam room. Good manners, and good morals, actually depend on getting outside the doctor’s time zone and crossing over to where everyone else lives. A version of this article appears in print on 01/21/2014, on page D4 of the NewYork edition with the headline: A Taste of My Own Manners. Your health questions answered by Times journalists and experts. Your Questions | All » Get Well's Running email for practical tips, expert advice, exclusive content and a bit of motivation delivered to your inbox every week to help you on your running journey. Coming soon. How much do you know about the amazing things that go on in your gut? Take our quiz to find out about the creepy, crawly critters living in your home. What surface is the most friendly to the flu virus? Where’s the best place to stand when you’re talking to a sick person? How does sleep affect health, relationships and well-being? The “Reading the Mind in the Eyes Test” measures ability to understand others’ emotional states. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   Ulster Gains Top Seeding in Heineken Cup Matches. Advertisement Advertisement By HUW RICHARDSJAN. 21, 2014 London — Ulster was the big winner on the sixth and last weekend of pool matches in the Heineken Cup, rugby union’s equivalent of soccer’s Champions League. With only two places still to be claimed, the weekend was mostly about settling the seeding order which determines the quarterfinal draw. The last eight includes involves six former champions. The two yet to win currently lead the English and French championships. Ulster, the only team to have made the playoffs for the last four years, completed a pool stage sweep and secured top seeding when it won, 22-19, away to English champion Leicester. It was Leicester’s first Heineken loss at home in 25 matches and more than seven years. Ulster was already through, but heading for a tough away quarterfinal when it trailed 19-9 with 24 minutes to go. The comeback was spearheaded by its South African scrum-half Ruan Pienaar, who scored all 22 points, including the decisive penalty with 11 minutes left. A home quarterfinal at its tightly atmospheric Ravenhill Road ground also brings the chance of revenge against English club Saracens, which beat it in the quarterfinal last year. Advertisement “It seems like it’s happening every week, when Ruan scores all the points — he was outstanding,” said Ulster’s captain Johann Muller, “We came here to get a home quarterfinal. Sarries totally outplayed us last season — they are a great side and don’t mind going away to get a result.” Leicester’s loser’s prize was one of the best runner-up spots and a fearsome quarterfinal at Clermont Auvergne. Saracens claimed the other runner-up place by beating Connacht, 64-6, at Aviva Park. Its 11-try hammering of the Irish province was highlighted by two English veterans — winger Dave Strettle crossed three times while playmaker Charlie Hodgson reprised the performances he formerly produced for England, prompting brilliantly in open play but missing a series of kicks at goal. Full-back Alec Goode, one of England’s newer generation, produced the best single moment with a double feint to either side followed by a 50-meter dash to score through the space his move created. “Alec has been outstanding for the last two months, but that’s as good as it gets,” said Saracens coach Mark McCall, who added that his team’s third consecutive qualification for the playoffs “makes us a top eight side, but the next step is to be in the top two or three.” The other team to seal qualification on the final weekend was three-time champion Leinster, which hammered Ospreys, 36-3, on Friday. The contest turned on the early sending off for stamping of Ospreys lock Ian Evans. A suspension will rule Evans — who has played in every match of Wales’s consecutive championship seasons — out of some or all of the European Six Nations championship, which begins on Feb. 1. Leinster must travel, to reigning champion Toulon, in the quarterfinal. Not so compatriot Munster, which demolished Edinburgh, 38-6, to ensure a home playoff. A qualifier for the 15th time in 16 years Munster will entertain four-time winner Toulouse a quarterfinal clash of the tournament’s perennial heavyweights. Toulouse blew its own chance of a home draw when it fell well short of a four-try bonus point, crossing only once as it won, 16-6, away to Italian scrappers Zebre. France’s captain Thierry Dusautoir tore a tendon in his biceps and will miss the Six Nations. Toulouse’s failure left the way open for the French clubs who contested last year’s final to seal home draws. Toulon won, 15-9, in foul conditions away to Glasgow, while Clermont clinched its 71st victory at Stade Marcel Michelin, beating Racing Metro, 28-3. Advertisement “It wasn’t pretty,” said Clermont’s Scottish international lock forward of his team’s struggle to claim a bonus point against opponents who had three players sin-binned for illegal play. “We need to be a bit more clinical if we’re going to go further” The consolation prizes of places in the quarterfinals of the second rank Amlin Trophy went to the English trio of Northampton, Gloucester — which won, 36-18, away to Perpignan — and Harlequins, whose outside-half Ben Botica kicked a late penalty to end Wales’s vestigial European presence by beating Scarlets, 22-20, in Llanelli. The draw was also made for the semifinals, in which home teams play in their own county, but not on their usual home ground. The winner of Ulster versus Saracens will have home country advantage over the winners of Clermont versus Leicester, while Toulon or Leinster enjoy that edge over Munster or Toulouse. A version of this article appears in print on January 20, 2014, in The International New York Times. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Books   The Read Around: Rebecca Mead. Rebecca Mead, author of “My Life in Middlemarch,” says that reading and rereading George Eliot’s masterpiece has helped shape her own life.                   
Business   Gay Couple? Are You Amending a Tax Return?. Advertisement Advertisement By THE NEW YORK TIMESJAN. 21, 2014 Tax season is not traditionally a time of year Americans look forward to. But this year may be different – at least for some. The Treasury Department and Internal Revenue Service announced last August that same-sex spouses who were legally married could jointly file federal tax returns as married couples for 2013 as well as amended returns for some previous years, possibly receiving thousands of dollars in refunds. The announcement came two months after the Supreme Court struck down the 1996 Defense of Marriage Act, which prevented gay couples from receiving the same federal benefits as heterosexual couples. The Times is seeking to talk to gay couples who are considering filing amended tax returns. Tara Siegel Bernard, a personal finance reporter, will choose one or more readers to profile in a future article. If you are interested in being involved in this reporting, please leave a comment on this article that describes your situation or contact Ms. Siegel Bernard at sources@nytimes.com. Include how long you have been legally married, in what state you were married and where you live now. Ms. Siegel Bernard will follow up using the email address with which you have registered on nytimes.com. Go to Home Page »
Food   The Women in the Kitchen. A wave of female chefs like Lauren DeSteno is rising through the culinary ranks. More than ever, women fill the jobs that will produce the next generation of restaurant leaders.          
Foreign   Twitter Q. and A. on Syria Peace Talks. Advertisement Advertisement Compiled by HANNA INGBERJAN. 21, 2014 As diplomats and politicians gathered in Switzerland for a highly anticipated peace conference on Syria, Anne Barnard, The Times's Beirut bureau chief, answered readers’ questions via Twitter on the continuing conflict and the expectations for the talks. She discussed the exclusion of Iran from the conference, opportunities to improve the delivery of humanitarian aid and prospects for the future. The talks are set to open in Montreux on Wednesday. Following is the exchange between readers and Ms. Barnard. Go to Home Page »
Health   Advertising Disorder Attention Deficit Disorder. Advertisement Advertisement Even some of the field’s longtime advocates say the zeal to find and treat every A.D.H.D. child has led to too many people with scant symptoms receiving the diagnosis and medication. JAN. 23, 2014 Even some of the field’s longtime advocates say the zeal to find and treat every A.D.H.D. child has led to too many people with scant symptoms receiving the diagnosis and medication. Related story: The Selling of Attention Deficit Disorder Advertising Disorder Drug companies have shifted marketing for A.D.H.D. medication through the years. Most recently, problems like divorce and auto accidents have been used to appeal to adults. Ads in the 1990s advertised improved grades at school as a central benefit. Early ads focused on depression and “the problem child.” Source: Various medical journals and consumer magazines Source: Various medical journals and consumer magazines
Movies   The Carpetbagger. Get behind the scenes of Hollywood’s awards season, with close-up looks at Oscar-nominated films and exclusive red-carpet access to the hottest actors, actresses and directors.          Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics Obama, Dancing with the Star (Wars) Cuban Ballet School in Motion Canada Wildfire Prompts Mass Evacuations Fort McMurray Wildfire Under Investigation How Will Obama Spend His Retirement? Why It’s Hard to Keep the Pounds Off Welfare and the Politics of Poverty Cruz Responds to Trump’s Paternal Dig Trudeau Speaks on Canadian Wildfires
Science   How Inactivity Changes the Brain Sign Up for the Running Email. Advertisement Gretchen Reynolds on the science of fitness. A number of studies have shown that exercise can remodel the brain by prompting the creation of new brain cells and inducing other changes. Now it appears that inactivity, too, can remodel the brain, according to a notable new report. The study, which was conducted in rats but likely has implications for people too, the researchers say, found that being sedentary changes the shape of certain neurons in ways that significantly affect not just the brain but the heart as well. The findings may help to explain, in part, why a sedentary lifestyle is so bad for us. Until about 20 years ago, most scientists believed that the brain’s structure was fixed by adulthood, that you couldn’t create new brain cells, alter the shape of those that existed or in any other way change your mind physically after adolescence. But in the years since, neurological studies have established that the brain retains plasticity, or the capacity to be reshaped, throughout our lifetimes. Exercise appears to be particularly adept at remodeling the brain, studies showed. But little has been known about whether inactivity likewise alters the structure of the brain and, if so, what the consequences might be. So for a study recently published in The Journal of Comparative Neurology, scientists at Wayne State University School of Medicine and other institutions gathered a dozen rats. They settled half of them in cages with running wheels and let the animals run at will. Rats like running, and these animals were soon covering about three miles a day on their wheels. The other rats were housed in cages without wheels and remained sedentary. After almost three months of resting or running, the animals were injected with a special dye that colors certain neurons in the brain. In this case, the scientists wanted to mark neurons in the animals’ rostral ventrolateral medulla, an obscure portion of the brain that controls breathing and other unconscious activities central to our existence. The rostral ventrolateral medulla commands the body’s sympathetic nervous system, which among other things controls blood pressure on a minute-by-minute basis by altering blood-vessel constriction. Although most of the science related to the rostral ventrolateral medulla has been completed using animals, imaging studies in people suggest that we have the same brain region and it functions similarly. A well-regulated sympathetic nervous system correctly directs blood vessels to widen or contract as needed and blood to flow, so that you can, say, scurry away from a predator or rise from your office chair without fainting. But an overly responsive sympathetic nervous system is problematic, said Patrick Mueller, an associate professor of physiology at Wayne State University who oversaw the new study. Recent science shows that “overactivity of the sympathetic nervous system contributes to cardiovascular disease,” he said, by stimulating blood vessels to constrict too much, too little or too often, leading to high blood pressure and cardiovascular damage. The sympathetic nervous system will respond erratically and dangerously, scientists theorize, if it is receiving too many and possibly garbled messages from neurons in the rostral ventrolateral medulla. And, as it turned out, when the scientists looked inside the brains of their rats after the animals had been active or sedentary for about 12 weeks, they found noticeable differences between the two groups in the shape of some of the neurons in that region of the brain. Using a computerized digitizing program to recreate the inside of the animals’ brains, the scientists established that the neurons in the brains of the running rats were still shaped much as they had been at the start of the study and were functioning normally. But many of the neurons in the brains of the sedentary rats had sprouted far more new tentacle-like arms known as branches. Branches connect healthy neurons into the nervous system. But these neurons now had more branches than normal neurons would have, making them more sensitive to stimuli and apt to zap scattershot messages into the nervous system. In effect, these neurons had changed in ways that made them likely to overstimulate the sympathetic nervous system, potentially increasing blood pressure and contributing to the development of heart disease. This finding is important because it adds to our understanding of how, at a cellular level, inactivity increases the risk of heart disease, Dr. Mueller said. But even more intriguing, the results underscore that inactivity can change the structure and functioning of the brain, just as activity does. Of course, rats are not people, and this is a small, short-term study. But already one takeaway is that not moving has wide-ranging physiological effects. In upcoming presentations, Dr. Mueller said, he plans to show slides of the different rat neurons and, echoing the old anti-drug message, point out that “‘this is your brain.’ And this is your brain on the couch.” A version of this article appears in print on 01/28/2014, on page D4 of the NewYork edition with the headline: This Is Your Brain on the Couch. Your health questions answered by Times journalists and experts. Your Questions | All » Get Well's Running email for practical tips, expert advice, exclusive content and a bit of motivation delivered to your inbox every week to help you on your running journey. Coming soon. How much do you know about the amazing things that go on in your gut? Take our quiz to find out about the creepy, crawly critters living in your home. What surface is the most friendly to the flu virus? Where’s the best place to stand when you’re talking to a sick person? How does sleep affect health, relationships and well-being? The “Reading the Mind in the Eyes Test” measures ability to understand others’ emotional states. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   Sharapova Follows Williams Out the Door. Advertisement Advertisement By BEN ROTHENBERGJAN. 20, 2014 MELBOURNE, Australia — One day after the heavy favorite Serena Williams lost to Ana Ivanovic, another multiple Grand Slam champion crashed out in the fourth round at the Australian Open. On Monday, Maria Sharapova, a four-time Grand Slam champion and the No. 3 seed, lost to No. 20 Dominika Cibulkova, 3-6, 6-4, 6-1. For Cibulkova, it was a moment of exuberance. After shaking Sharapova’s hand, she bounced back toward her player box, leaping several times and pumping her fists. Cibulkova, of Slovakia, has never been ranked in the top 10, but her victory meant that she has now reached the quarterfinals at all four Grand Slam events. Though she lost the third set fairly easily, Sharapova had given herself a good chance to win the second after falling behind, 0-5, eventually digging back to 4-5 before missing several crucial returns of second serves that allowed Cibulkova to serve out the set on her third try. Advertisement After losing the second set, Sharapova walked off the court with a trainer and received an off-court medical timeout for what she later said was a hip strain. “I mean, those aches and pains are expected when you spend a long time on the court,” she said, though she later added that knowing how such pain would have affected her movements was not “rocket science.” Cibulkova said she did not see that Sharapova was visibly affected by the injury, and added that she thought Sharapova was trying to disrupt her momentum throughout the match. “I didn’t see during the rallies,” Cibulkova said. “She was running, and, I don’t know. Of course I knew that she took the medical timeout, but she was trying to change my rhythm a lot of times during the games.” It wasn’t the first time Cibulkova had beaten Sharapova at a Grand Slam, having previously routed her, 6-0, 6-2, in the quarterfinals of the 2009 French Open. “This is, I would say, the most important thing,” Cibulkova said. “I went on the court, and I was more than 100 percent sure that I really can beat her. I can beat her on the big court, in the important match, you know, on the Grand Slam. I did it before, and I knew she knows me.” Sharapova, who had to battle in extreme heat for three and a half hours Thursday to beat Karin Knapp, 3-6, 6-4, 10-8, in their second-round match, said her ability to escape with less than her best tennis had run out. Sharapova had been forced to miss the United States Open with a shoulder injury, and had only been able to play one tournament between August and the Australian Open. “I haven’t been playing the best tennis of this tournament, but I found ways to get through to the last two matches,” she said. “I tried to do that again today, but she played extremely well.” Advertisement Cibulkova’s next opponent will be No. 11 Simona Halep. The Romanian won a marathon game at the start of the third set and eventually ran away with a 6-4, 2-6, 6-0 victory over No. 8 Jelena Jankovic of Serbia to reach her first Grand Slam quarterfinal. Halep, who began 2013 ranked 47th, won six titles last year, second only to the 11 won by Serena Williams. Later on Monday afternoon, in a rematch of last year’s controversy-tinged semifinal, Victoria Azarenka was rarely threatened by Sloane Stephens, beating the last American left in the tournament, 6-3, 6-2. Azarenka dominated the match from the start while Stephens struggled with consistency, and too often was not proactive enough to dictate rallies with her superior power. While both players struck 20 winners in the match, Stephens had 32 winners to 20 by Azarenka, a Belarussian. Stephens, who was defending a large number of ranking points she gained from reaching the semifinals last year, will slip from 13th to somewhere around 17th. While not as eyebrow-raising as the finish to last year’s match, which was marred by Azarenka’s taking a lengthy medical timeout after her lead in the second set began to slip away, there was little love lost between the two. Late in the first set, Azarenka pulled Stephens in toward the net with a drop shot, and Stephens landed a hard backhand passing shot between Azarenka’s legs. Three points later, after hitting another drop shot that pulled Stephens forward, Azarenka responded with a head-high reflex volley that narrowly missed Stephens, leaving the American smiling broadly as she mimed applause with her racket. Stephens, who said she had “never hit anyone in a match,” denied intentionally aiming for her opponent. “I thought she was going to move and she didn’t,” Stephens said. “I don’t know what was happening, but didn’t think that would ever happen.” Azarenka also played down the moment. “Maybe she had an open court, but she chose that shot,” she said of Stephens. “I have no problem with that.” Advertisement Azarenka, the second seed and two-time defending champion, most likely emerges as the favorite to win the tournament once again with Williams and Sharapova out of contention. “I don’t consider myself just a favorite because I don’t consider anybody as the favorite,” Azarenka said. “I just go out there and play my best, because anybody, on any given day — we’ve seen that happen last couple days — can bring their best game. You have to stay alert. It doesn’t matter the level that you’re No. 2 or whatever. Everybody has proven that anybody can beat anybody.” In the quarterfinals, Azarenka, will face Agnieszka Radwanska of Poland, who defeated Garbiñe Muguruza of Spain, 6-1, 6-3. A version of this article appears in print on January 21, 2014, in The International New York Times. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
U.S.   The Holes in a Theory of Suicide The Holes in a Theory of Suicide. Advertisement Advertisement Forensic experts said a theory that Michelle O’Connell shot herself with her boyfriend’s gun lacked credibility. JAN. 21, 2014 Forensic experts said a theory that Michelle O’Connell shot herself with her boyfriend’s gun lacked credibility. Related story: Two Gunshots on a Summer Night
Business   New Security Report Confirms Everyone Is Spying on Everyone. Advertisement Lest we forget, the National Security Agency is in good company. A new security report confirms that Chinese hackers spied on The New York Times in 2012, as well as attendees of the G20 Summit in St. Petersburg last fall. Iranian hackers spied on dissidents in the lead up to state elections last May. The Syrian Electronic Army is only getting better, and North Korean hackers were behind a destructive cyberattack that wiped data from South Korean banks last year. These were just some of the findings of CrowdStrike, the hot Laguna Niguel, Calif., security start-up which tracked more than 50 hacking groups last year. The company, started by George Kurtz, the antivirus company McAfee’s former chief technology officer, and Dmitri Alperovitch, McAfee’s former vice president of threat research, produced its findings in an annual report Wednesday. The report buttresses previous findings by The New York Times, Google and a number of other security firms, including FireEye, the Milpitas, Calif.-based security software firm that acquired Mandiant last year. It also offered a number of interesting new discoveries. Among them: Needless to say, this won’t be a slow year for the $67 billion cybersecurity industry. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   A Race Against Time for a Second Child. Advertisement Updated, 9:27 a.m. | At 39, Xiao Cai knows time is not on her side if she’s to fulfill her yearning and have a sibling for her 3-year-old son. Her dreams are modest; she only wants two children. Yet two months after the Chinese government announced a change to the one-child policy to permit some families a second child (the change will apply to couples where one partner is an only child), hundreds of thousands, perhaps millions, of women like Xiao Cai who are pushing the limit of their fertility find themselves in a bizarre and painful situation: Their dream of having two could be defeated at the finish line by the slow-turning wheels of state bureaucracy. After decades of the one-child policy, many Chinese still feel that two children is a more normal number than one. Xiao Cai, who asked to be identified only by her nickname to maintain her privacy, hopes deeply for a girl. A family of one girl and one boy — known in the West as a ‘‘millionaire’s family’’ — is an ideal here, too, like the two vases that make up the pair in traditional Chinese aesthetics. She knows that her biological clock is ticking fast. But only in Zhejiang Province and, today, in Anhui Province, has the policy become law. In mid-January, the provincial People’s Congress in Zhejiang revised the law to permit qualifying couples to apply to have a second, saying the law ‘‘has been born,’’ according to Xinhua, the state-run news agency. In Beijing, Liu Zhi, the city’s head of family planning, said officials ‘‘hope’’ to implement the change there on Mar. 1, The Beijing News reported. ‘‘The authorities have said they will change the law, but no one knows for sure when,’’ said Xiao Cai, a Beijinger and a health care worker. For now, she can only wait, as she has done since November. ‘‘I really want another baby,’’ she said. ‘‘But if we try now, what if I get pregnant and the law doesn’t change in time?’’ ‘‘I’d like to just go ahead. But if it doesn’t happen soon and I have a child, it could have really severe consequences for us,’’ she said. ‘‘If I don’t do it now, I may never be able to. I really don’t know what to do.’’ The financial consequences of breaking the law, even in its dying days, would be heavy. She has done her math: the couple could be fined 300,000 renminbi, about $50,000. It would financially ruin them. Her husband left his ‘‘iron rice bowl’’ state job some years ago to work independently. Their income is adequate, but they’re not rich. In a later text message, she wrote: ‘‘I’ve read in the newspapers that the whole country is researching this, when and how to bring it in. And I’ve read other stories that say the government is saying, don’t rush to have a second child, you must wait for the central government to announce it’s for real, or you will have problems getting all the papers you need.’’ So for now, she anxiously waits. Xiao Cai is luckier than many of her friends who she said are battling infertility, a condition she believes is growing in China, based on anecdotal evidence. She already has her son. Yet she also has an older sister with whom she is extremely close and she cherishes that sibling love. What mostly drives her, she said, was the fear that her son would feel alone. ‘‘Only one child, isn’t it lonely for him? He’s so clingy. I think it would be really good for him to have a sibling,’’ she said. So, as has been the case since 1979, when the one-child policy began, Chinese remain dependent on the will of the state for that most intimate of things: procreation. Only now, for many it’s a race against time. The government expects between one million and two million additional births per year after the law takes effect countrywide, said Mao Qun’an, a spokesperson for the National Health and Family Planning Commission. In Beijing, officials expect between 30,000 and 50,000 more births per year, The Beijing News wrote. Xiao Cai is hoping her dreamed-of daughter will be one of them — if the law changes before her fertility runs out. Sinosphere, the China blog of The New York Times, delivers intimate, authoritative coverage of the planet's most populous nation and its relationship with the rest of the world. Drawing on timely, engaging dispatches from The Times’ distinguished team of China correspondents, this blog brings readers into the debates and discussions taking place inside a fast-changing country and details the cultural, economic and political developments shaping the lives of 1.3 billion people. Some called on the government to send troops to the Middle East in retaliation to an Islamic State killing, while others cautioned that such a move could invite terrorism at home.Read more… The dissidents had won official recognition as refugees and had been previously detained in China for their activism, Chris Buckley reports.Read more… Human rights advocates listened with a mixture of incredulity and derision to the delegation’s responses on interrogation, Nick Cumming-Bruce reports. Read more… In the Philippines for an Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit, President Obama urged China to halt military activities on the disputed islands, Michael D. Shear reports. Read more… The dead, including women and children, were said to have been involved in a knife attack in September that left 50 people dead at a mine near the Kyrgyzstan border, Javier C. Hernández reports. Read more… Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Science   Potato and Sorrel Gratin. Advertisement Advertisement Recipes for Health By MARTHA ROSE SHULMAN JAN. 20, 2014 When a friend offered me sorrel from her garden I accepted gladly. I love the tangy flavor of this green leafy vegetable and will always buy it if I see it in my farmers’ market. You don’t need much to contribute lots of lemony flavor and vitamins C, A, iron, calcium and magnesium. The gratin is not a typical creamy sliced potato gratin; it’s more like a potato pie. I cook the potatoes first, then slice or dice and toss with the wilted sorrel, eggs, milk and cheese. Total time: 1 hour 30 minutes 2 pounds small or medium-size Yukon gold potatoes, scrubbed Salt to taste 8 ounces sorrel, stemmed and washed in 2 changes of water 1 garlic clove, peeled and cut in half Olive oil or butter for the baking dish 4 eggs 1 1/2 cups milk (2 percent) 3 ounces Gruyère, grated (3/4 cup) 1 ounce Parmesan, grated (1/4 cup) Freshly ground pepper 1. Place potatoes in a wide saucepan and cover with water. Add salt to taste and bring water to a boil over medium-high heat. Reduce heat to medium, cover partially and gently boil potatoes for 20 minutes, or until tender all the way through but firm enough to slice. Drain, return the potatoes to the pan, cover and let sit for 15 minutes. Remove from the pot and using a towel to grip the potatoes if they are too hot to handle, slice about 1/2 inch thick, or if you prefer, cut in dice. Transfer to a large bowl. Advertisement 2. Meanwhile stem and wash sorrel leaves. Heat a wide skillet over high heat and add the sorrel, in batches if necessary. Stir until sorrel has wilted in the liquid left on the leaves after washing. The color will go from bright green to drab olive and the sorrel will melt down to what looks like a purée. Don’t worry, it will be chopped and mixed with the other ingredients and you won’t mind the color. When all of the sorrel has wilted, remove from heat and transfer to a strainer or a colander. Rinse briefly with cold water, then press or squeeze out excess liquid. Chop medium-fine. Transfer to bowl with the potatoes, toss together and season with salt and pepper. 3. Preheat oven to 375 degrees. Rub sides and bottom of a 2- to 2 1/2-quart baking dish or gratin with the cut side of the garlic clove. Oil dish with olive oil. Mince remaining garlic and add to potatoes and sorrel. 4. Beat eggs in a medium bowl. Add salt to taste (I use about 1/2 teaspoon). Whisk in milk. Add to potatoes and sorrel and stir well to distribute sorrel evenly throughout the mixture. Stir in cheeses and freshly ground pepper, and scrape into the baking dish. 5. Bake 45 minutes, or until set and the top and sides are nicely browned. Remove from the heat and allow to sit for 10 minutes or longer before serving. Yield: Serves 6 to 8 Advance preparation: You can cook the potatoes and sorrel up to a day ahead. The gratin keeps well in the refrigerator for a couple of days. Reheat in a medium oven for about 20 minutes. Nutritional information per serving (6 servings): 283 calories; 11 grams fat; 5 grams saturated fat; 1 gram polyunsaturated fat; 3 grams monounsaturated fat; 149 milligrams cholesterol;31 19 grams carbohydrates; 4 grams dietary fiber; 207 milligrams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 16 grams protein Nutritional information per serving (8 servings): 212 calories; 8 grams fat; 4 grams saturated fat; 1 gram polyunsaturated fat; 3 grams monounsaturated fat; 111 milligrams cholesterol; 23 grams carbohydrates; 3 grams dietary fiber; 155 milligrams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 12 grams protein Martha Rose Shulman is the author of “The Very Best of Recipes for Health.” See More » Go to Home Page »
Sports   Skier Flirts With Danger. In this episode of Teton Gravity Research’s “Behind The Line,” professional skiers Todd Ligare and others discover a technical line in Alaska that requires jumping two crevasses.          
Technology   App Smart. Find the best mobile apps for all of your needs, like tracking your fitness, becoming more creative and even falling in love.          Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics Obama, Dancing with the Star (Wars) Cuban Ballet School in Motion Canada Wildfire Prompts Mass Evacuations Fort McMurray Wildfire Under Investigation How Will Obama Spend His Retirement? Why It’s Hard to Keep the Pounds Off Welfare and the Politics of Poverty Cruz Responds to Trump’s Paternal Dig Trudeau Speaks on Canadian Wildfires
Arts   The Carpetbagger. Get behind the scenes of Hollywood’s awards season, with close-up looks at Oscar-nominated films and exclusive red-carpet access to the hottest actors, actresses and directors.          Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics Obama, Dancing with the Star (Wars) Cuban Ballet School in Motion Canada Wildfire Prompts Mass Evacuations Fort McMurray Wildfire Under Investigation How Will Obama Spend His Retirement? Why It’s Hard to Keep the Pounds Off Welfare and the Politics of Poverty Cruz Responds to Trump’s Paternal Dig Trudeau Speaks on Canadian Wildfires
Business   IBM Happy to Be Rid of Low-End Server Business. Advertisement   Lenovo of China, already the world’s largest maker of personal computers, has purchased from IBM one of the world’s largest computer server businesses, for what seems like a rock-bottom price. Lenovo gets market share in an area where it is a small player. IBM is shedding a business that was killing its profitability in higher-margin software and services. Wish both sides luck. What seems something like the proverbial win-win deal is more likely a sign of how fast things are changing in the trillion-dollar global technology industry. Businesses like PCs are losing ground to mobile devices like smartphones, and the once-formidable computer server is increasingly viewed as one more commodity piece of globe-spanning cloud computing projects from a few elite players. “We need to get an inventor’s profit, not a distributor’s profit,” said Steve Mills, senior vice president of software and systems at IBM. “Our investment in research and development is what makes IBM go. It’s hard to do that in markets that don’t give you credit for the innovations you bring.” It’s stark how quickly that margin fell away. A year ago, IBM was talking about a sale of its server business to Lenovo for what was reported at the time to be $6 billion. Today’s deal for $2.3 billion kept for IBM some higher-value servers, like those that perform complex data analytics. But according to Mr. Mills, it also included agreements for IBM to buy from Lenovo some of the commodity, or x86, servers for IBM’s growing cloud business. About 7,500 IBM employees, including people in sales, marketing and customer support, will also move to Lenovo as part of the deal, Mr. Mills said. He also noted that IBM still spends $6 billion a year in research and development, from which it plans to create higher-value businesses. “The money has to go where the market goes: Social, mobile, analytics, and security,” he said. “We’ve put a lot of money there, tens of billions just buying analytics companies over the past several years. You’ll still see us doing a lot of creative things in hardware.” For its part, Lenovo moves from near invisibility in the server market to a crucial position. According to Gartner, in the third quarter of 2013 Lenovo’s global server presence was about 0.2 percent of the 2.4 million x86 servers shipped worldwide. IBM had a 7.5 percent share. Hewlett-Packard was first, with a 26.8 percent share, and Dell came second, with a 19.6 percent share. “Even in China, Lenovo has only a 10-percent share,” said Errol Rasit, an analyst with Gartner. “IBM has 11 percent. There isn’t much more efficiency Lenovo can put into the manufacture, H.P. and Dell have already been about as efficient as possible. Lenovo bought entrance into an extremely challenging market that is in transition.” Investors seem to think Lenovo’s jump into a sizable share of the market will have an effect on pricing, however. Soon after the announcement, the share prices of both Intel and AMD, the two prime suppliers of x86 chips, fell. To some degree, the counts of market share and profitability become more difficult as cloud companies like Google and Amazon Web Services design and contract their own highly engineered systems. While these custom-built devices aren’t counted by analyst firms, they may already represent a significant share of the world market. In effect, IBM may have sold off a business increasingly dominated by the cloud companies with which it must also compete as it builds out its own cloud. Last year IBM paid $2 billion for a cloud company called Softlayer, and last week said it would spend $1.2 billion just this year building out that business. Mr. Mills defended his company’s chances. “Softlayer operates at a cost point equal to Amazon,” he said. “I don’t worry about the competitive issue.” Google, he noted, has agreed to use sophisticated IBM chips in its computer centers. “We’ve had our eyes on the issue for some time,” he said. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   1924: Black Flags Fly All Over Russia To Mourn Lenin. Advertisement   MOSCOW — Lenin, the founder of Bolshevism, died this morning [Jan. 22]. After an illness lasting nearly two years, his condition became suddenly worse yesterday, and at five this morning  he lost consciousness, death following two hours later from paralysis of the nerve centres. He was fifty three years old. Kalinin, president of the Soviet Central Committee, announced the death to the Soviets to-day amid loud weeping. Lenin’s body will be brought to Moscow to-morrow and exposed for public view for three days. The death of the sick “Dictator” though long expected, has produced a tremendous sensation, superstitious Russians being impressed by its coinciding with the nineteenth anniversary of “Bloody Sunday,” when Trotzky organised the first revolutionary movement in the Russian capital, and with the formation of Labor Government in London. A proclamation has been issued announcing that “Lenin is dead, but that the Soviet Republic will continue his work. The power of the Soviet Government is so strongly planted that even the death of Lenin cannot change this historic fact.” Although Lenin had been superseded for some time past by a triumvirate composed of Kameneff, Zinovieff and Stalin, who have also recently set aside Trotzky, the occult influence of the founder of Bolshevism continued to make itself felt, and only a few days ago it was announced that he was improving in health and had actually been out shooting crows. Nicholas Lenin, whose real name was Vladimir Oulianoff, was born at Simbirsk, on the Volga, on April 10, 1870. His father was a chinovnik or civil servant and had attained a rank which conferred nobility upon himself and his descendants. With the caution that characterized the whole of his career, Lenin managed to avoid arrest during several, years of revolutionary activity. It was in 1896 that the Okhrana finally got him, and two years later arrested his wife. They managed to escape with a light sentence. Already in 1900 both were free and able to take up their residence in Switzerland, living alternately in Zurich and Geneva. Lenin appealed to the  masses in a way that the most ignorant could understand. He informed peasants and workmen that — in the doctrines of Karl Marx — all property represented robbery and therefore they were perfectly justified and entitled to take it from its holders. That was the secret of his success in the Bolshevist revolution of December 7, 1917. Like most of his associates, Lenin looked only to the end, but to him it was power and nothing else; while the others imagined they could really introduce a new dispensation on earth. That is why Lenin was the first to counsel a compromise with Capitalism in the form of the “Nep” (New Economic Policy). — The New York Herald, European Edition, January 23, 1924  This blog will share highlights and curiosities from The International Herald Tribune's storied reportage. While we will share coverage of historic events — the world wars, the women's suffrage movement, the great expeditions — we will also republish glimpses of less earth-shaking moments and the ephemera of daily life. The same stories that caught the eyes of our generations of editors now offer us insight into the lives and interests of generations of Trib readers. Read more » From the International Herald Tribune archives: Prince Victor Napoleon gives a treatise on French politics in 1891.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: British troops attack Irak forces in 1941.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: America awaits Germany’s reply to the president’s note on the Lusitania sinking in 1916.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: Part of Slovenia was formally annexed to Italy in 1941.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: Augustine Birrell resigned as Chief Secretary for Ireland in 1916.Read more… Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Health   Comparing Two Operations Comparing Two Operations. Advertisement Advertisement Like many medical products or procedures, joint implants cost far more in the United States than in many other developed countries. JAN. 23, 2014 Like many medical products or procedures, joint implants cost far more in the United States than in many other developed countries. Related story: In Need of a New Hip, But Priced Out of the U.S.
Home   A Niche for Oomph. Advertisement Advertisement By RIMA SUQIJAN. 22, 2014 PIQ, a gift shop that opened last week at Grand Central Terminal, in a space formerly occupied by Pylones, is, like its predecessor, wildly colorful. But the similarities end there. “The Pylones look was about cuteness, and I was tired of cuteness,” said Frédéric A. Rambaud, a founder of the Sarut Group, which manages Pylones stores in New York (two remain) and an owner of the new PIQ. “There’s a new aspect in retail that’s a mix of day-to-day with designer toys. So the grandmother can come in and find something for the grandchildren, and at the same time find something for herself.” Depending on the grandmother’s mood and budget, such items could include sticky notes in the shape of a clock ($4.50) or a Barbie Anatomy Model, a sculpture by Jason Freeny that exposes the doll’s innards ($8,000). Intestines aside, Mr. Rambaud might be dismayed to hear that many of PIQ’s offerings are indeed “cute.” Information: 212-867-0969 or piqproducts.com. A version of this article appears in print on January 23, 2014, on page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: A Niche for Oomph. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Movies   This Week’s Movies. The ultimate film lover’s guide: The Times critics A.O. Scott, Manohla Dargis and Stephen Holden offer their picks for the week’s best movies, from blockbusters to hidden gems.          Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics Obama, Dancing with the Star (Wars) Cuban Ballet School in Motion Canada Wildfire Prompts Mass Evacuations Fort McMurray Wildfire Under Investigation How Will Obama Spend His Retirement? Why It’s Hard to Keep the Pounds Off Welfare and the Politics of Poverty Cruz Responds to Trump’s Paternal Dig Trudeau Speaks on Canadian Wildfires
Science   Living With Cancer: Life of the Party Sign Up for the Running Email. Advertisement Susan Gubar writes about life with ovarian cancer. The prospect of a party frightened me — probably because the enforced isolation of cancer treatments has rendered me hypersensitive. It was raining outside and festivities would not begin until after 8 p.m. But my husband and I had promised to attend the celebration of a book publication. So we dragged ourselves to Judith and Aidan’s house where I hoped to find a comfortable chair in which I would not look like the battle-ax at Mrs. Dalloway’s party whom everyone had thought long dead. The house, crowded with people clutching drinks, pulsed with their robust vitality. Before the cancer diagnosis, I would have moved around the room schmoozing with a series of acquaintances while getting a tad tipsy. Now I was determined to have a drink, but I would need to sit down, and I could not control who might sit with me or indeed whether anyone would. Still, sit I had to do while dealing with a hideous mix of nostalgia, jealousy and self-pity. Exhausted by five years of surgeries and drugs, I have spent too much time alone and have nothing to exchange in return for tidbits of gossip. My colleagues, kind people, took turns as sitters. Unfortunately, the atmosphere of jollity only underscored my worries: fears that thinning hair would not hide my scalp, qualms about not recalling the names of graduate students I recognized but could not place. The cumulative effect of treatment also left me bereft of the prevarications and censors that ease everyday interactions. The membrane between internal feelings and external expressions (on which I used to rely) has worn thin. I have neither the time nor the energy to maintain buffers between me and the limited world I inhabit. Cancer has made me porous and susceptible to others — those I know personally, and those I do not. A friend in mourning, or runners and spectators maimed in Boston, reduce me to tears. Have other patients experienced this permeable sense of self when the barrier between the person we present in public and our private sentiments erodes? With few filters, I really do not belong in polite society. Just when I decided to give my husband a signal for us to up and leave, two guests started to sing in a corner of the room. I settled down, pleased at not having to make chitchat with my current sitter, a very young woman with a crew cut. A succession of musicians followed, producing that vivid vibrancy only live music in an intimate space can create. By the time Jason Fickel stood up to sing, accompanying himself on his acoustic guitar, my exhilaration knew no bounds. Live music should not be reserved for memorials. Musicians ought to be allowed to play in infusion centers, hospital rooms and hospices. Or so I think as my body feels sprayed and bathed, plumped and pumped by the rhythms of a melody that comes from Jason’s mouth and hands but courses through me like currents of energy. The wine helps, undoubtedly, but it is the thrumming strings and the wry yet sonorous voice that delight me, galvanizing my attention and quickening my spirits. I sense the vibrations on my skin, in my bones, massaging the synapses of my brain: “music, sweet music, music everywhere.” Let there be trombones and guitars, flutes and pianos, singing and, especially, cellos for the sick and the dying. During my mother’s last months in assisted care, she would have loved to have heard a string quartet: harmonies returning her to pleasures displaced by old age and disease. Awash and exultant as the music ends, I recall a line of poetry — “we feel that we are greater than we know”— and turn to the girl on my right. I did not remember her because, apparently, I had never met her before. But, she explained carefully, she works out with a member of my cancer support group … in a special class. A beat, a pause, and I understand. The crew cut has to do with cancer. I shake her hand to wish her well. Her fingers are icy. A surge urges me on: the need, the palpable urgency, to pay tribute to her resolute stamina. I clasp both her frozen hands and kiss them, overwhelmed that someone so young has had to go through what she has gone through, though I scold myself too, for these eruptions of extravagant emotion are sure to make me look like a fool. By the time Don and I got home, I realized that there are liabilities but also benefits of being thin-skinned. At the party I had felt the beauty, felt the fun. Lucky, lucky, lucky, I thought as I drifted off to sleep. Susan Gubar is a distinguished emerita professor of English at Indiana University and the author of “Memoir of a Debulked Woman,” which explores her experience with ovarian cancer. Your health questions answered by Times journalists and experts. Your Questions | All » Get Well's Running email for practical tips, expert advice, exclusive content and a bit of motivation delivered to your inbox every week to help you on your running journey. Coming soon. How much do you know about the amazing things that go on in your gut? Take our quiz to find out about the creepy, crawly critters living in your home. What surface is the most friendly to the flu virus? Where’s the best place to stand when you’re talking to a sick person? How does sleep affect health, relationships and well-being? The “Reading the Mind in the Eyes Test” measures ability to understand others’ emotional states. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   A Japanese Thread in the Bronx. Advertisement Advertisement JAN. 23, 2014 It all began with Hideki Irabu, who joined the Yankees in 1997 but never lived up to the initial fanfare that greeted him. Hideki Matsui did fulfill expectations, arriving in 2003 and becoming a steady and admirable presence in the Yankee lineup through 2009. After Matsui came Kei Igawa, a left-hander who was unable to pitch effectively in the major leagues. Hiroki Kuroda and the new acquisition Masahiro Tanaka will give the Yankees two Japanese starters in their 2014 rotation. Barring a trade, there should be a third Japanese player on this year’s roster: Ichiro Suzuki, who is entering his 14th season in the majors. Did we leave anyone out? Yes. The Yankees had another Japanese player, Ryota Igarashi, who flopped as a Met and pitched in two games in pinstripes, compiling an earned run average of 12.00. Last season he was back in Japan, pitching for the Fukuoka Hawks. Here are snapshots of all six Japanese Yankees, with Tanaka set to become No. 7. IRABU 3 seasons with the Yankees, 29-20 record, 2 World Series rings, 4.80 E.R.A. He made his highly publicized major league debut at Yankee Stadium on July 10, 1997, and beat Detroit before an announced crowd of more than 51,000. But during spring training in 1999, the Yankees’ owner, George Steinbrenner, referred to him as a fat toad. Irabu died in 2011 at age 42. Advertisement MATSUI 7 seasons with the Yankees, .292 average, 140 home runs, 1 World Series ring. Nicknamed Godzilla, he hit a grand slam in his first game in the Bronx and was named the most valuable player of the 2009 World Series after his last game there as a Yankee. IGAWA 5 seasons with the Yankees, but almost all of it in the minor leagues; 2-4 record with a 6.66 E.R.A. as a Yankee. He was a $46 million fiasco, perhaps the worst misjudgment Brian Cashman has made as the Yankees’ general manager. SUZUKI 1 1/2 seasons with the Yankees, .280 average, 209 hits. At 40, he is no longer the player he once was, but he needs just 258 hits to get to 3,000 as a major leaguer. KURODA 2 seasons with the Yankees, 27-24 record, 3.31 E.R.A. He faltered in the second half of last season, but he has often been an asset for the Yankees. He turns 39 next month. IGARASHI 2 games with the Yankees, 3 innings pitched, 4 earned runs, 12.00 E.R.A. His nickname in Japan was Rocket Boy, in tribute to his fastball. In the major leagues, the only rockets were the ones hit off his pitches. An article in some editions on Thursday about Japanese players who joined the Yankees misstated the year Hideki Irabu, a pitcher for the Yankees from 1997 to 1999, died. It was 2011, not 2001. A version of this article appears in print on January 23, 2014, on page B12 of the New York edition with the headline: A Japanese Thread in the Bronx. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Business   Sharing an Android Tablet. Advertisement Advertisement Q&A By J. D. BIERSDORFER JAN. 24, 2014 Q. Is it possible for two people to use one Android tablet and keep their apps and settings separate? A. Tablets running Android 4.2 (and later) have a fairly easy way to set up multiple user accounts. Like multiple accounts on a desktop computer, each user account on the tablet has its own Home screen, settings and collection of apps. Android currently allows up to eight user accounts per tablet. To add a new user to your tablet in Android 4.4, open the Settings screen. (The exact steps and screens may vary based on the Android version and device you are using.) In the Device area, tap Users. On the Users & Profiles screen, tap “Add user or profile.” You are then presented with the choice of adding a User (a separate area of the tablet for the person to have their own apps, settings and files), or a Restricted Profile (a controlled version of your own account that can limit access to certain apps and files). Tap the User option. The person with whom you are sharing the tablet will need to go through the standard setup screens for adding an email account, configuring apps and customizing the account. Once the new account is set up, each user’s name and account picture appears on the tablet’s lock screen. Google’s site has more information on adding, modifying or deleting users on the same Android device. Advertisement Adding Photos to an iPhone Mail Message Q. Is there a way to add a photo to an email on the iPhone after you’ve already written the message? A. If the iPhone is running iOS 6 or iOS 7, you can attach a picture from the Photos app without leaving the Mail program. When you have the message open, press your finger on the iPhone’s screen until you see a small pop-up menu appear. On that menu, tap the “Insert Photo or Video” option; if you are still running iOS 6, tap the white arrow to get over to it. When the Photos screen opens, navigate to the image you want to send. Select it to attach to the open message. After you tap the Send button on the message, you get an option to select a file size for the image attachment. In older versions of iOS, you can still attach a photo after a message has been started, but it takes more effort. From the open Mail message on the screen, double-click the iPhone’s Home button to switch over to the Photos app. On the screen of photo thumbnails, press and hold the image you want to use until a Copy button appears. Tap Copy, then switch back to the Mail app. Go to the area of the message where you want to insert the image, then press down on the screen until a Paste option pops up. Tap Paste to attach the photo to the message. You can also start a message from the Photos app by selecting a photo (or group of photos) and tapping the Share icon in the corner. This pops open a new blank message with the pictures already attached. You just need to compose the text and address the message before sending it all off. Go to Home Page »
Food   Melissa Clark. The author and cook Melissa Clark takes you into her kitchen to show you how easy it can be to make exquisite and delicious meals.          Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics Obama, Dancing with the Star (Wars) Cuban Ballet School in Motion Canada Wildfire Prompts Mass Evacuations Fort McMurray Wildfire Under Investigation How Will Obama Spend His Retirement? Why It’s Hard to Keep the Pounds Off Welfare and the Politics of Poverty Cruz Responds to Trump’s Paternal Dig Trudeau Speaks on Canadian Wildfires
Foreign   New Law to Ban Manual Removal of Human Waste Disappoints. Advertisement   India’s widespread absence of flush toilets and sewer lines means much of the country’s human waste must be scraped out by hand, and then carried in baskets to dump sites. The people who carry out this dehumanizing task, almost exclusively women from the Dalit castes, experience severe discrimination. Among the Dalits, those who are born into the lowest castes handle these jobs and are put under immense social pressure to take up the occupation themselves. Since independence, discrimination based on caste has been banned and a law banning manual scavenging was passed in Parliament in 1993, but it didn’t ban dry toilets and had no employment aid for former workers. It has gone largely unenforced. Given that the new law prohibits the hiring of such workers and provides alternative job training, one would have expected human rights advocates like Ashif Shaikh, who has devoted 12 years to getting a stronger law passed, to feel a sense of accomplishment. “We are happy about the new law,” he said. But the specifics of implementation, which are decided by government committees, were “rubbish,” he said. For instance, the text of the new law includes provisions for the rehabilitation of scavengers through a one-time cash stipend, plus access to scholarships and free vocational training. But the law’s rules, which spell out how the law will be carried out, don’t reflect the ambitious spirit of the law itself, according to Mr. Shaikh. “If you look at the rules, the word rehabilitation isn’t even used once,” he said. “When we asked the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment about the lack of any specifics in the rules as to rehabilitation, they said, ‘We are preparing separate schemes for that.’ But schemes are not law, which we can hold accountable in court.” Mr. Shaikh and his fellow activists did have high hopes at one time that the new law would have enough teeth to eradicate these jobs, which are held by around 300,000 Dalits, according to government estimates. (Some Dalit rights activists say it could easily be triple that number.) The organization that Mr. Shaikh founded, Rashtriya Garima Abhiyan (National Campaign for Dignity), led a campaign last year in which 1,000 former manual scavengers traveled from village to village across 18 states for two months, persuading other women to leave the job and join them in “liberating” others. Mr. Shaikh said 5,000 more women ended up accompanying them to their final destination in Delhi. This caught the attention of policy makers, including Jairam Ramesh, the current Minister of Rural Development. Mr. Shaikh decided to capitalize on the momentum by bringing some of his newly “liberated” scavengers to knock on the doors of more than 50 members of Parliament who represented their districts. That way, the lawmakers could not claim that manual scavenging had been eradicated in their jurisdictions. Mr. Shaikh excitedly recounted a morning when Meenakshi Natarajan, a Congress Party lawmaker from Madhya Pradesh, served him and former manual scavengers breakfast in her living room. Dalits, let alone manual scavengers, are traditionally not allowed to enter the homes of higher caste people. Mr. Shaikh said these efforts by his organization and other Dalit activists are what led to the drafting of the most recent law. But they didn’t have power to specify how the law should be carried out. He pointed to the one chapter in the rules that deals with rehabilitation, while never using that word. It has only one clause, stating that former manual scavengers will be given a one-time “cash assistance,” without specifying by whom, when or how much. If implemented, the new law would severely curtail the use of dry toilets, also known as insanitary latrines, as it carries high fines and the possibility of jail time for those who employ manual scavengers or who fail to replace latrines that require manual cleaning. Those households using insanitary latrines will be held responsible for converting or demolishing them at their own cost, or the authorities under the orders of district magistrates will convert the latrines and recover the cost from the owner. Furthermore, offices of district magistrates around the country are required to survey existing dry toilets by Feb. 6, and their subsequent destruction must take place within six months of that date. In a phone interview last month, Sanjeev Kumar, joint secretary for the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, which sponsored the law, assured that these deadlines were “very strict” and that the government would spare no effort to enforce the new law, albeit mostly through existing government programs. “There is no need to worry about the specifics,” said Mr. Kumar. “Money won’t even be a consideration, not a barrier at all.” However, Manjula Pradeep, executive director of Navsarjan Trust, a Dalit rights nonprofit based in Gujarat, said that to her knowledge, with two weeks until the survey deadline, preparations haven’t yet begun in any state. “With national elections coming up, I think government is content to simply have passed the law,” she said. “Meanwhile, state governments continue to deny the widespread presence of manual scavengers in their states and use that as an excuse to delay new surveys indefinitely.” She used her own state as example, where the government has contended that Gujarat has no manual scavengers, despite two independent surveys that found over 10,000 of them. The central government, for its part, insists that it is committed to eliminating those jobs. “There can’t be a greater blot on India than the existence of manual scavenging,” Mr. Ramesh, the rural development minister, said in an interview. “Manual scavenging shows us how caste is still very much an Indian reality, and of how some of the system’s worst vestiges are still with us.” But Mr. Shaikh, having lost faith in the central government’s assurances, said his organization will now focus on state-level conventions in an attempt to pressure state governments to act upon the new law. Along with Mr. Shaikh and Ms. Pradeep, Bezwada Wilson completes the tripartite of activists who have been at the forefront of working to end the practice of manual scavenging both on the ground and through law. Mr. Wilson was born into a manual scavenging family and became one of the founders of Safai Karmachari Andolan, a people’s movement that aims to eradicate manual scavenging. Out of the three activists, he is the most radical and also the most distrusting of the government. He has already begun planning how to incorporate the expected failure to meet the Feb. 6 deadline into expansive public interest litigation against the central government. Mr. Wilson said he has given up on using political channels to accomplish his goals. “Really, the government may not have success anyway through laws,” he said. “It’s better if people like me directly go and speak these people’s language. When I go. I tell them, ‘There are 130 crore [1.3 billion] people in this country, and just like you most of them are poor. But only so many of them are scavenging. There are ways to live outside of this, even as a poor person,’ ” he said, pacing around his office. “Sometimes they don’t think they can just be a regular poor person.” He settled back into his chair and shook his head. “Still! The government should make an actual vision,” he said. “Tell us it will take 10 years. Just be honest.” India’s national elections began April 7 and will continue on nine separate dates until May 12, with results expected to be announced on May 16. The vote is the world’s largest, with 814 million eligible voters set to choose 543 members of the lower house of Parliament. The other two seats will be appointed by the president. This election is widely considered to be India’s most consequential since 1977. India Ink will be moving to the World page of The New York Times. Read more… A memorial ceremony at the Imphal War Cemetery in Manipur to honor the soldiers who died during World War II.Read more… The newly elected prime minister reaches out to the public in a blog post about his first 30 days in office.Read more… Newborns whose mothers are unable to breastfeed are given stored breast milk to protect them from potentially life-threatening infection.Read more… In the final stage of a long decline, Hindustan Motors announced in May that it would suspend production of the Ambassador, a car that was once synonymous with style and status.Read more… This report on India from the journalists of The New York Times and a pool of talented writers in India and beyond provides unbiased, authoritative reporting on the country and its place in the world. India Ink also strives to be a virtual meeting point for discussion of this complex, fast-changing democracy – its politics, economy, culture and everyday life. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Health   The Weekly Health Quiz. Advertisement Advertisement In the news: smoking, fishy fish oils and highway safety. JAN. 23, 2014 Toby Bilanow/The New York Times
Movies   Jemaine Clement and Taika Waititi. The co-directors and co-writers discuss their vampire film "What We Do in the Shadows" at Sundance.          
Science   Not Your Grandmother’s Gratin Sign Up for the Running Email. Advertisement   In my kitchen, leftovers often become the inspiration for a week of Recipes for Health. This happened last week. If you had opened my refrigerator on Sunday you would have found a selection of roasted vegetables, which I had prepared over the weekend for various dinners and recipe tests. By Tuesday those vegetables had found their way into three winter gratins. A vegetable gratin is a casserole that is baked in the oven in a heavy baking dish until the top and sides are browned, or gratinéed. Roasting vegetables for a gratin adds another level of caramelized flavor to the dish. Roasted winter squash is particularly sweet. Roasting cauliflower coaxes flavor out of this somewhat bland vegetable: the small flowers brown and crisp, and I was hard pressed to save enough for my gratin, so tempting a snack were they. I begin just about any eggplant dish I make by roasting the eggplant, as this method of cooking requires much less oil than frying. I didn’t roast the vegetables in every one of this week’s recipes, but in all of the gratins the vegetables are cooked before being mixed with aromatics, cheese, eggs and, in all but one recipe, milk (in the cauliflower gratin, there is a tomato sauce rather than a milk and egg custard). I served them as main dishes and have been enjoying leftovers for lunch. They are delicious at room temperature as well as hot. Potato and Sorrel Gratin: A gratin that is not a typical creamy sliced potato gratin but more like a potato pie.  Roasted Squash and Red Onion Gratin With Quinoa: Roasting the squash results in a sweet layer of flavor in this beautiful gratin.  Fennel, Kale and Rice Gratin: Two different greens provide contrast in this casserole.  Roasted Cauliflower Gratin With Tomatoes and Goat Cheese: A beautiful, light gratin with Middle Eastern spices.  Roasted Eggplant and Red Pepper Gratin: A Mediterranean gratin seasoned with cumin and thyme. Your health questions answered by Times journalists and experts. Your Questions | All » Get Well's Running email for practical tips, expert advice, exclusive content and a bit of motivation delivered to your inbox every week to help you on your running journey. Coming soon. How much do you know about the amazing things that go on in your gut? Take our quiz to find out about the creepy, crawly critters living in your home. What surface is the most friendly to the flu virus? Where’s the best place to stand when you’re talking to a sick person? How does sleep affect health, relationships and well-being? The “Reading the Mind in the Eyes Test” measures ability to understand others’ emotional states. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   Real Madrid’s Basketball Win Streak Ends. Advertisement Advertisement By REUTERSJAN. 24, 2014 Host CSKA Moscow snapped Real Madrid’s 31-game winning streak with an 85-71 victory in a clash between European heavyweights. That left CSKA with a 3-1 record in Group F of the Euroleague, tied with Real and behind Maccabi Tel Aviv (4-0). Go to Home Page »
Business   Sufficient Financing to Aid Troubled Banks, European Officials Say. Advertisement    Jeroen Dijsselbloem, president of the Eurogroup of euro zone finance ministers, said at the World Economic Forum that if ailing banks were not able to raise capital from investors, they would draw it from their own governments, and as a last resort, from the European bailout fund. “The instruments are there,” Mr. Dijsselbloem, who is also the finance minister the Netherlands, said during a panel discussion. That level of certainty surprised at least one of the experts on the panel, Adair Turner, a former top bank regulator in Britain. Reflecting a widespread concern, Mr. Turner had expressed doubt whether Europe was prepared for the consequences if the European Central Bank’s scrutiny of the largest banks in the euro zone uncovered any that had grave problems that were previously hidden. “Is that already agreed?” he asked, referring to use of the bailout fund, the European Stability Mechanism. Mr. Dijsselbloem replied that euro zone finance ministers had agreed in principle and would grant final approval in March. “We will deal with all these issues,” he said. Among policy makers and many in the banking industry, there is broad agreement that Europe needs to carry out the same kind of rigorous cleanup of financial institutions that the United States did in 2009, helping restart lending and create the conditions for economic recovery. The European Central Bank is in the process of scouring bank books, looking for bad loans, sour investments or other problems that banks may have kept hidden. Fear that some banks are papering over serious problems has made it difficult for all banks in the euro zone to raise money that they can lend to businesses and consumers. The aim of the review is to ultimately restore the credibility of banks in the 18 countries of the euro zone. “There is still a clear lack of trust in the European banking system,” said Federico Ghizzoni, chief executive of UniCredit, the largest bank in Italy. “This has to be dissipated thanks to this exercise.” In the United States, banks with problems were forced to take capital from the government if they could not raise it themselves from investors. But Germany and some other countries have been reluctant to help finance bank cleanups in other euro zone countries. And there has been doubt whether countries like Portugal, already struggling with excess government debt, could afford bank rescues if any were needed. Also on the panel was Wolfgang Schäuble, finance minister of Germany, who did not contradict Mr Dijsselbloem. “It will work, it has been decided,” Mr. Schäuble said of the bank recapitalization plan, though he added that money would also come from a fund paid for by the banking industry, and only after bank creditors and shareholders had contributed. Echoing comments made on Friday by Mario Draghi, the president of the European Central Bank, Mr. Dijsselbloem insisted that the review of banks would be comprehensive, in contrast to earlier attempts that failed to uncover serious problems. “I rather hope that it’s going to unveil some unpleasantness because that would give me a good feeling that it has been done properly,” he said. However, some on the panel doubted that lack of trust was the only reason that lending to businesses in the euro zone has been on the decline. Many businesses are reluctant to borrow money because of uncertainty about the strength of the economy, said Anshu Jain, co-chief executive of Deutsche Bank, Germany’s largest bank. “There is a demand side problem as well,” he said. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   U.S. Catholics Hope for 2015 Papal Visit. Advertisement Advertisement By LAURIE GOODSTEINJAN. 24, 2014 Pope Francis may make his first trip as pope to the United States in September 2015 to attend the Roman Catholic Church’s World Meeting of Families in Philadelphia. Popes traditionally attend these events, which have been held every three years since 1994. “We are planning as if Pope Francis will be with us and have no indication that he will not attend,” said Kenneth A. Gavin, a spokesman for the archdiocese of Philadelphia. But he added that any reports that Francis would make the trip “are not official.” There is speculation that Francis would stop in New York on that same trip to speak to the United Nations General Assembly, but Joseph Zwilling, a spokesman for the archdiocese of New York, said the archdiocese had not heard anything from the Vatican. The last papal visit to the United States was in April 2008, when Pope Benedict XVI traveled to Washington and New York. A version of this brief appears in print on January 25, 2014, on page A8 of the New York edition with the headline: The Vatican: U.S. Catholics Hope for 2015 Papal Visit. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Business   Sufficient Financing to Aid Troubled Banks, European Officials Say. Advertisement    Jeroen Dijsselbloem, president of the Eurogroup of euro zone finance ministers, said at the World Economic Forum that if ailing banks were not able to raise capital from investors, they would draw it from their own governments, and as a last resort, from the European bailout fund. “The instruments are there,” Mr. Dijsselbloem, who is also the finance minister the Netherlands, said during a panel discussion. That level of certainty surprised at least one of the experts on the panel, Adair Turner, a former top bank regulator in Britain. Reflecting a widespread concern, Mr. Turner had expressed doubt whether Europe was prepared for the consequences if the European Central Bank’s scrutiny of the largest banks in the euro zone uncovered any that had grave problems that were previously hidden. “Is that already agreed?” he asked, referring to use of the bailout fund, the European Stability Mechanism. Mr. Dijsselbloem replied that euro zone finance ministers had agreed in principle and would grant final approval in March. “We will deal with all these issues,” he said. Among policy makers and many in the banking industry, there is broad agreement that Europe needs to carry out the same kind of rigorous cleanup of financial institutions that the United States did in 2009, helping restart lending and create the conditions for economic recovery. The European Central Bank is in the process of scouring bank books, looking for bad loans, sour investments or other problems that banks may have kept hidden. Fear that some banks are papering over serious problems has made it difficult for all banks in the euro zone to raise money that they can lend to businesses and consumers. The aim of the review is to ultimately restore the credibility of banks in the 18 countries of the euro zone. “There is still a clear lack of trust in the European banking system,” said Federico Ghizzoni, chief executive of UniCredit, the largest bank in Italy. “This has to be dissipated thanks to this exercise.” In the United States, banks with problems were forced to take capital from the government if they could not raise it themselves from investors. But Germany and some other countries have been reluctant to help finance bank cleanups in other euro zone countries. And there has been doubt whether countries like Portugal, already struggling with excess government debt, could afford bank rescues if any were needed. Also on the panel was Wolfgang Schäuble, finance minister of Germany, who did not contradict Mr Dijsselbloem. “It will work, it has been decided,” Mr. Schäuble said of the bank recapitalization plan, though he added that money would also come from a fund paid for by the banking industry, and only after bank creditors and shareholders had contributed. Echoing comments made on Friday by Mario Draghi, the president of the European Central Bank, Mr. Dijsselbloem insisted that the review of banks would be comprehensive, in contrast to earlier attempts that failed to uncover serious problems. “I rather hope that it’s going to unveil some unpleasantness because that would give me a good feeling that it has been done properly,” he said. However, some on the panel doubted that lack of trust was the only reason that lending to businesses in the euro zone has been on the decline. Many businesses are reluctant to borrow money because of uncertainty about the strength of the economy, said Anshu Jain, co-chief executive of Deutsche Bank, Germany’s largest bank. “There is a demand side problem as well,” he said. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   U.S. Catholics Hope for 2015 Papal Visit. Advertisement Advertisement By LAURIE GOODSTEINJAN. 24, 2014 Pope Francis may make his first trip as pope to the United States in September 2015 to attend the Roman Catholic Church’s World Meeting of Families in Philadelphia. Popes traditionally attend these events, which have been held every three years since 1994. “We are planning as if Pope Francis will be with us and have no indication that he will not attend,” said Kenneth A. Gavin, a spokesman for the archdiocese of Philadelphia. But he added that any reports that Francis would make the trip “are not official.” There is speculation that Francis would stop in New York on that same trip to speak to the United Nations General Assembly, but Joseph Zwilling, a spokesman for the archdiocese of New York, said the archdiocese had not heard anything from the Vatican. The last papal visit to the United States was in April 2008, when Pope Benedict XVI traveled to Washington and New York. A version of this brief appears in print on January 25, 2014, on page A8 of the New York edition with the headline: The Vatican: U.S. Catholics Hope for 2015 Papal Visit. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Sports   England Defeats Australia. Advertisement Advertisement By REUTERSJAN. 25, 2014 A fine all-around display by Ben Stokes ended England’s long losing streak against Australia, with the team winning a one-day international by 57 runs in Perth. England had lost eight straight against Australia. Go to Home Page »
U.S.   Three Killed in Maryland Mall Shooting. A shooting at The Mall in Columbia in suburban Maryland left three dead including the suspected assailant.          
Business   Accidents Surge as Oil Industry Takes the Train. Advertisement Advertisement By CLIFFORD KRAUSS and JAD MOUAWADJAN. 25, 2014 CASSELTON, N.D. — Kerry’s Kitchen is where Casselton residents gather for gossip and comfort food, especially the caramel rolls baked fresh every morning. But a fiery rail accident last month only a half mile down the tracks, which prompted residents to evacuate the town, has shattered this calm, along with people’s confidence in the crude-oil convoys that rumble past Kerry’s seven times a day. What was first seen as a stopgap measure in the absence of pipelines has become a fixture in the nation’s energy landscape — about 200 “virtual pipelines” that snake in endless processions across the horizon daily. It can take more than five minutes for a single oil train, made up of about 100 tank cars, to pass by Kerry’s, giving this bedroom community 20 miles west of Fargo a front-row seat to the growing practice of using trains to carry oil. “I feel a little on edge — actually very edgy — every time one of those trains passes,” said Kerry Radermacher, who owns the coffee shop. “Most people think we should slow the production, and the trains, down.” Casselton is near the center of the great oil and gas boom unleashed these last few years. And it has seen up close how trains have increasingly been used to transport the oil from the new fields of Colorado, Wyoming and North Dakota, in part as a result of delays in the approval of the Keystone XL pipeline. About 400,000 carloads of crude oil traveled by rail last year to the nation’s refineries, up from 9,500 in 2008, according to the Association of American Railroads. But a series of recent accidents — including one in Quebec last July that killed 47 people and another in Alabama last November — have prompted many to question these shipments and have increased the pressure on regulators to take an urgent look at the safety of the oil shipments. Advertisement In the race for profits and energy independence, critics say producers took shortcuts to get the oil to market as quickly as possible without weighing the hazards of train shipments. Today about two-thirds of the production in North Dakota’s Bakken shale oil field rides on rails because of a shortage of pipelines. And more than 10 percent of the nation’s total oil production is shipped by rail. Since March there have been no fewer than 10 large crude spills in the United States and Canada because of rail accidents. The number of gallons spilled in the United States last year, federal records show, far outpaced the total amount spilled by railroads from 1975 to 2012. Railroad executives, meeting with the transportation secretary and federal regulators recently, pledged to look for ways to make oil convoys safer — including slowing down the trains or rerouting them from heavily populated areas. (Trains go up to roughly 35 miles an hour through towns and at higher speeds outside populated areas.) They also agreed to speed up a review of tougher standards for the train cars used for oil. And last Thursday, safety officials urged regulators to quickly improve industry standards. Advertisement “This is an industry that has developed overnight, and they have been playing catch-up with the infrastructure,” said Deborah A. P. Hersman, the chairwoman of the National Transportation Safety Board, which is investigating the Casselton accident. “A lot of what we’ve seen could have been a lot worse.” But given the fragmented nature of the business — different companies produce the oil, own the rail cars, and run the railroads — there is no firm consensus on what to do. And few analysts expect new regulations this year. “There was no political pressure to address this issue in the past, but there clearly is now,” said Brigham A. McCown, a former administrator of the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration. “Producers need to understand that rail-car safety can become an impediment to production.” The stakes are high. In five years, domestic oil production has jumped by 50 percent, to reach 7.5 million barrels a day last year. But with little pipeline infrastructure, energy producers had to scramble for new ways to get their oil to refiners. Rail was the answer. “The reality is that this came out of nowhere,” said Anthony B. Hatch, a rail transport consultant. “Rail has gone from near-obsolescence to being critical to oil supplies. It’s as if the buggy-whips were back in style.” Advertisement Far more toxic products are shipped on trains. But those products, like chlorine, are transported in pressurized vessels designed to survive an accident. Crude oil, on the other hand, is shipped in a type of tank car that entered service in 1964 and that has been traditionally used for nonflammable hazardous liquids like liquid fertilizers. Safety officials have warned for more than two decades that these cars were unsuited to carry flammable cargo: their shell can puncture and tears up too easily in a crash. In 2009, a train carrying ethanol derailed and exploded, killing one person in Cherry Valley, Ill. The National Transportation Safety Board said the inadequate design of the tank cars made them “subject to damage and catastrophic loss of hazardous materials.” As domestic oil production has increased rapidly in recent years, more and more of it is being transported by rail because of the lack of pipeline capacity. The trains often travel through populated areas, leading to concerns among residents over the hazards they can pose, including spills and fires. 400 thousand Number of oil freight railroad cars 300 Some major oil freight railroad lines Casselton 200 Glenwood 100 Portage Minneapolis/St. Paul Milwaukee Chicago ’05 ’07 ’09 ’11 ’13 Kansas City 3.0 billion barrels Shale plays Topeka St. Louis U.S. oil field production 2.5 Parsons Dexter Junction Stroud Bakersfield El Reno 2.0 Memphis Midwest City Little Rock Pine Bluff 1.5 Fort Worth Monroe Odessa Share transported by rail 1.0 Hearne Houston St. James Harwood 0.5 Galveston 10% Gardendale 7% 0.0 2% 1% ’05 ’07 ’09 ’11 ’13 After that accident, railroads and car owners agreed in 2011 to beef up new cars with better protections and thicker steel. But they resisted improving safety features on the existing fleet because of cost. They also argued that thousands of new cars were being ordered anyway, so it would be just a matter of time before the fleet was replaced. But analysts said that time has run out; railroads and car owners can no longer ignore the liabilities associated with oil trains, which could reach $1 billion in the Quebec accident. “Quebec shocked the industry,” Mr. Hatch said, adding that while rail safety has improved over all, “the consequences of any accident are rising.” Last November, the Association of American Railroads said it would support requiring that the 92,000 tank cars used to transport flammable liquids, including crude oil, be retrofitted with better safety features or “aggressively phased out.” Still, other groups have resisted. The Railway Supply Institute, which represents freight car owners, told regulators three weeks before the Casselton accident that existing cars “already provide substantial protection in the event of a derailment” and suggested minor modifications to be phased in over 10 years. Advertisement While the safety record of railroads has improved in recent years, the surge in oil transportation has meant a spike in spill rates. From 1975 to 2012, federal records show, railroads spilled 800,000 gallons of crude oil. Last year alone, they spilled more than 1.15 million gallons, according to an analyis of data from the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration done by McClatchy Newspapers. That figure includes the Casselton spill, estimated at about 400,000 gallons. The accidents have also created a sense of weariness among elected officials and even staunch oil backers. North Dakota Gov. Jack Dalrymple, a Republican, insisted that the first priority was improving tank cars. “These exploding tank cars are obviously very powerful and very dangerous,” he said. The accidents have brought another problem to light. Crude oil produced in the Bakken appears to be a lot more volatile than other grades of oil, something that could explain why the oil trains have had huge explosions. Here too, the warnings came too late. Federal regulators started analyzing samples from a few Bakken wells last year to test their flammability. In an alert issued on Jan. 2, P.H.M.S.A. said the crude posed a “significant fire risk” in an accident. The Federal Railroad Administration also pointed to rising numbers of oil cars that showed a “form of severe corrosion” on the inside of the tanks, covers and valves. After the recent meeting with regulators, the American Petroleum Institute pledged it would share its own test data about the oil, which they have said is proprietary. While the tank cars themselves have not caused any accident, they failed to contain their cargo. That happened on the outskirts of Casselton when a 106-car oil train crashed into a soybean train that derailed on a parallel track. Advertisement In a preliminary report, the N.T.S.B. said 18 of the 20 oil tank cars that derailed were punctured. Much of the oil spilled was incinerated by the explosions, and some soaked into nearby corn fields. Aside from evacuating nearby farms, there was little the fire department could do but watch the train burn. Tim McLean, Casselton’s fire chief, pictured what the town would look like if an oil train derailed. The large propane supply tank would explode “like a bomb” and incinerate two multifamily houses next to it. Five blocks to the west are a lumber yard and two gasoline stations. Oil might accumulate in storm sewers and possibly spread a fire underground. “There’s virtually no way we could protect these buildings,” he said as he passed the barber shops, drugstore and pizza parlor, all occupying sturdy brick buildings more than a century old. “It would be too hot.” The terror of what might have happened hit many here immediately. Adrian Kieffer, the assistant fire chief, rushed to the accident and spent nearly 12 hours there, finishing at 3 a.m. “When I got home that night, my wife said let’s sell our home and move,” he said. An article last Sunday about the dangers posed by increased shipping of crude oil by rail omitted credit for a data analysis showing the quantity of oil spilled in rail shipments in 2013. It was done by McClatchy Newspapers, using data from the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration. It was not analyzed by the administration itself. In addition, an accompanying chart omitted a label in one section. The bar chart of oil freight rail cars should have indicated the numbers were in thousands. The article also described the Casselton spill incorrectly in relation to last year’s spillage. The 400,000 gallons spilled at Casselton was included in the overall 1.15 million gallons spilled; it was not excluded. And a credit for a picture of a fiery rail accident in Casselton, N.D., in December misidentified the photographer. The picture was taken by Dawn Faught, a local photographer — not by the son of a coffee shop owner on whose phone it appeared. A version of this article appears in print on January 26, 2014, on page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Accidents Surge as Oil Industry Takes the Train. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Foreign   China Sentences Legal Activist to 4 Years for Role in Protests. Advertisement Advertisement By ANDREW JACOBS and CHRIS BUCKLEYJAN. 25, 2014 BEIJING — A Chinese court sentenced a prominent legal activist to four years in prison Sunday in a case widely seen as a demonstration of the Communist Party leadership’s determination to quell any challenges to its hold on power. The activist, Xu Zhiyong, was convicted of “gathering a crowd to disturb public order,” a charge that stemmed from his role organizing a grass-roots New Citizens Movement, which sought to give voice to public discontent over official corruption and social injustice. After a judge of the No. 1 Intermediate People’s Court in Beijing announced the guilty verdict and sentence, Mr. Xu denounced the trial as he was led away by guards, said one of Mr. Xu’s lawyers, Zhang Qingfang. “He said, ‘The court today has completely destroyed what remained of respect for rule of law in China,’ and then he was taken away,” said Mr. Zhang. His account of the verdict and Mr. Xu’s comment was confirmed by the other defense lawyer, Yang Jinzhu. “He can still appeal, but this outcome was decided by the senior leaders, and there’s no hope of changing the verdict,” Mr. Zhang said. He said the court could have imposed a maximum sentence of five years. Advertisement The judgment, coming unusually swiftly after a trial Wednesday, will silence Mr. Xu for now. But the sentence could also enhance Mr. Xu’s prominence as an advocate for political liberalization. Mr. Xu and his two lawyers remained silent in protest for most of the proceedings, but Mr. Xu used his concluding statement to deliver part of an impassioned manifesto for democratic change, free speech and rule of law. The full text has circulated on the Internet. For the verdict hearing, the police stood guard for blocks around the courthouse, keeping away journalists, diplomats and ordinary citizens concerned about the case. Journalists who tried to approach the court were told to leave. As the first prosecution of a high-profile activist under Xi Jinping, the Communist Party secretary who took power in November 2012, the case was seen as a barometer of how China’s new leadership — the first in a decade — would respond to organized calls for reform. Some liberal intellectuals and rights advocates initially hoped that Mr. Xi would be more tolerant than his predecessor, Hu Jintao, of mild campaigns for change. In 2012, Mr. Xu helped promote the New Citizens Movement, an organization that drew up to 5,000 members dedicated to fighting government graft and education policies restricting the children of rural migrants from attending big city schools. While many of the group’s activities involved informal discussions at restaurants across the country, some of its members took part in small street rallies in 2012 and early 2013 that unnerved the Communist Party leadership. Prosecutors claimed Mr. Xu was the “ringleader” of several protests in Beijing during which participants held aloft banners denouncing corruption or demanding an end to the nation’s discriminatory education policies. Other participants in the New Citizens Movement and similar protests also face prosecution, including two who stood trial in the two days after Mr. Xu’s trial. Four others face trial Monday in Beijing, according to Human Rights in China. Legal experts and human rights advocates described the prosecution of Mr. Xu as deeply flawed. His lawyers were not allowed to cross-examine prosecution witnesses, whose testimony was submitted in writing only so they did not appear in court. Nor were the defense lawyers permitted to call in witnesses of their own. Advertisement Mr. Xu’s lawyers unsuccessfully challenged the legality of holding separate trials for the New Citizens Movement defendants in Beijing, a move they said prevented them from benefiting from testimony that could help in their defense. Mr. Zhang, one of his lawyers, called the trial last Wednesday “a piece of theater.” Nicholas Bequelin, a senior researcher at Human Rights Watch in Hong Kong, said Mr. Xu’s slapdash prosecution and the sentence were designed to deter others seeking to agitate against the Communist Party’s monopoly on power. “It sends out the message that the law is essentially a tool for the party to rule the citizenry, not for the citizenry to curtail the power of the state,” he said. Andrew Jacobs reported from Beijing, and Chris Buckley from Hong Kong. A version of this article appears in print on January 26, 2014, on page A11 of the New York edition with the headline: China Sentences Legal Activist to 4 Years for Role in Protests. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Society   And Their Beat Goes On. Advertisement Advertisement By VINCENT M. MALLOZZIJAN. 26, 2014 Margaret Mary Ocampo and Benjamin Paul Scheck were married Saturday at St. Andrew Avellino Roman Catholic Church in Flushing, Queens. Msgr. Michael J. Brennan, a Roman Catholic priest, performed the ceremony. The bride, 26, teaches fourth grade at Public School 169 in the Bronx. She graduated magna cum laude from Queens College and received a master’s degree in the literacy specialist program at Columbia. She is a daughter of Monserrat M. Washburn of East Meadow, N.Y., and Jaime M. Ocampo of Queens Village. The groom, also 26, is a certified public accountant who works in Manhattan as an internal auditor with Advance Publications, a publisher of magazines and newspapers. He graduated from Baruch College, where he also received a master’s degree in taxation. He is the son of Angela Scheck and Robert I. Scheck of Flushing. The couple met in 2005 when they were high school seniors at St. Francis Preparatory School in Fresh Meadows, Queens. Advertisement “We sat across from each other in a computer class,” Mr. Scheck recalled. “I had never seen her before. I really wanted to get to know her.” Eventually he completed that assignment. “It took about a month; I had to build up a little courage,” he said. “She was a lot of fun, being with her just seemed right.” They were soon inseparable. “I liked the fact that we had a similar sense of humor,” Ms. Ocampo said. “We also both loved music; he was more a fan of classic rock and I liked classical and pop.” That shared love led to the creation of their rock band, Cover Fire, during their senior year in college. She is the lead singer. He plays bass guitar. “It’s still a lot of fun,” Ms. Ocampo said. On Nov. 22, 2012, Mr. Scheck proposed to Ms. Ocampo beneath the Arc de Triomphe in Paris. “I was taking photos and then I turned around to find him down on one knee,” she said. “At that point we had been going out for years and had been on so many trips together that I really didn’t expect anything. I was truly shocked.” VINCENT M. MALLOZZI A version of this article appears in print on January 26, 2014, on page ST13 of the New York edition with the headline: And Their Beat Goes On. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Sports   Ducks Triumph at Dodger Stadium as Volleyballs and Frisbees Fly. Advertisement Advertisement By KAREN CROUSEJAN. 26, 2014 LOS ANGELES — Outdoor hockey, Southern California-style, debuted Saturday night with face-offs and Frisbees, spiked volleyballs and a stuffed penalty shot, Bob Miller partnering with Vin Scully and the iconoclastic pitcher Brian Wilson mingling with the icon Wayne Gretzky. The temperature at the start of the history-making game at Dodger Stadium between the Kings and the visiting Anaheim Ducks, rivals separated by 31 miles of interstate, was 61 degrees with a slight breeze. The balmy weather notwithstanding, it was easy to get the chills during the first regular-season outdoor hockey game in California, won by the Ducks in a 3-0 shutout. First there was a joint introduction by the Kings’ Miller and the Dodgers’ Scully, the city’s two legendary broadcasters. Then Gretzky performed the ceremonial opening puck drop, the only man for the honor given how he single-handedly made hockey cool in warm-weather cities. By the time the game started, the crowd of 54,099 was in full roar, with “Go Kings Go” cries followed by chants of “Beat L.A.” It was left to Jonas Hiller, the Ducks goaltender, to silence the Kings crowd, and he was more than up to the task. Hiller, who will represent Switzerland at next month’s Sochi Games, made 36 saves, including 20 in the opening 20 minutes, to leave his mark in the hallowed home of Koufax and Kershaw, where other visitors have included the Beatles and the Pope. Advertisement Corey Perry, who described the experience of playing outdoors as “getting back to your roots,” swept a loose puck past the Kings’ goaltender, Jonathan Quick, in the third minute for his 28th goal of the season. Matt Beleskey redirected the puck past Quick less than six minutes later. Collecting the second assist was Teemu Selanne, 43, who first graced a Ducks jersey in February of 1996, when Beleskey was 7. Asked if he enjoyed the game, Selanne said: “Absolutely. Way more than a normal game. It was a great experience.” For the Ducks, maybe. In the 10th minute, Anze Kopitar was awarded a penalty shot but he was stopped by Hiller. When Kopitar failed to score, the air went out of the lungs of the Kings fans. Anyone who follows the team knows well its recent struggles to put the puck in the net. In their last five games, all losses, the Kings have been outscored, 16-8. They haven’t scored since Kopitar’s goal in the fourth minute of their game Thursday against the Ducks in Anaheim. The puck at times bounced off players’ sticks like a bad grounder off a shortstop’s glove. The ice, while slushier than usual, was not terrible. Ben Lovejoy, the Ducks defenseman responsible for hooking Kopitar to set up the penalty shot, had described the ice as “good enough” after practicing on it Friday. On the eve of the game, Lovejoy said, “We might not want to skate on this ice 82 times a year, but for one night against the Kings in January this is going to be the best thing that’s happened to hockey in Southern California.” Since Gretzky, that is. The Battle at the Ballpark, as Miller coined it, was a spectacle that Gretzky built one point at a time during his eight years as the National Hockey League’s L.A.-based proselytizer of puck. He delivered everything to Southern California but the Stanley Cup, and since his retirement both the Kings and Ducks have taken care of that piece of unfinished business, with the Ducks winning the N.H.L. championship in 2007 and the Kings taking the title in 2012. “If somebody would tell me 10 years ago that we’re going to have an outdoor game here, that would really sound crazy,” Selanne said. “Everything is different now than it used to be. California has become a big hockey place.” Advertisement The rock band KISS, conceived in New York and commanded by Gene Simmons, performed before the game and during the first intermission. Five for Fighting — the rock band, not a group of Vancouver Canucks – performed in the second intermission. When the hockey stopped, the children’s bandy game and the adult beach volleyball matches began anew, headlined by Kerri Walsh Jennings, a three-time Olympic gold medalist who also happens to be a die-hard fan of the Dodgers’ big rivals, the San Francisco Giants. Other sports luminaries in attendance included Wilson, the Dodgers’ Mohawk-shorn pitcher, Yasiel Puig, Fernando Valenzuela and Tommy Lasorda. On this might it did not matter if you were a Dodger hater or a beloved former Dodger, a Ducks fan or a Kings fan, a hockey purist or an arriviste here to watch and be seen. What mattered was that on an unusually warm winter’s night, the beach balls and the Frisbees and the sand and the rock musicians were the side shows and the N.H.L., in a twist that would have been inconceivable a quarter of a century ago, was the main act. Go to Home Page »
Travel   Amy Tan’s Evolving Sense of China. Advertisement Advertisement By KENAN CHRISTIANSENJAN. 24, 2014 In 1949, Amy Tan’s mother boarded one of the last ships heading from Shanghai to San Francisco before “China became Red China and the bamboo curtain descended.” There, her mother reunited with her husband and the couple relocated to Oakland, where a couple of years later she was born. As a child, she knew little more about China than an “American pastiche of stereotypes,” and that some of her family had been lucky enough to make it out, while others had not. For years she organized her thinking around those divisions, until revelations about her family and the country her parents fled broke them down. Below are excerpts from correspondence with Ms. Tan, 61, whose latest novel is “The Valley of Amazement,” about how her relationship with China changed over time. Q. What were your earliest thoughts about China? A. Growing up in the 1950s and 1960s, I thought of China as a prison that everyone wanted to escape. My parents considered themselves lucky that they were able to leave before 1949. Other family members were not quite as lucky and wound up in Formosa — that’s what we called Taiwan in those days. They sent us letters that described hard work and lack of proper food, hygiene and clothing. In their photos, they looked shockingly weathered and shiny with sweat. We received no letters from China and prayed for those silent ones whose whereabouts were unknown. If America was heaven, Formosa would be limbo, and China would be hell. Were you ever in contact with those family members before visiting?  When I was 16, after my father died, my mother told me that she had been married to another man in Shanghai before she met my father. I could hardly comprehend this stunning news, when she added she also had three daughters in China. She did not explain why they were in China, whereas she was in California. Years later she would only say that her previous husband had been a bad man. If I pressed her she would have said that I did not understand because I was an American. That was her typical lament when I did not seem to appreciate the tragedies of her life, like the suicide of her mother, which left her alone — abandoned, really — at the age of 9. She showed me their photos. The middle daughter, Jindo, was beautiful. She resembled my mother. She also fit the stereotype of peasants I had imagined in childhood. She wore a conical hat and farmer’s clothing, and she was standing next to a rice field. That could have been my life. Afterward, China was no longer an invisible jail. I now imagined myself living there, wearing a conical hat and writing letters late at night to my mother, in beautiful Chinese calligraphy like that of my newfound sisters. “I dream every day you will return,” Jindo had written her. “When you do, my happiness will be restored.” Advertisement Did she return? Yes, in 1979, after a 30-year separation, my mother went to visit her three daughters. Jindo lived in a village of rice farmers. She had married a surgeon, and they and several comrades served my mother a modest feast in a shack whose walls were lined with newspaper to keep out the cold. When was your first visit? In 1987, my mother, husband and I went together. We stepped out of the plane into an airport painted toothpaste green. I had assumed I would blend in with the masses. Instead, I was surrounded by locals who gawked at me and made open comments about my outlandish purple clothing. These days, I go about once a year. The most gleamingly modern airports I’ve been to are in China. The coolest and most technologically challenging hotel I’ve ever stayed in is in China. The most tricked-out hair salon I’ve been to is in China. The worst pollution I’ve endured is in China. I keep going back for more of the most. Not everyone wants to escape anymore. In fact, it is more often the case that Chinese students go to the U.S. to study and return to start companies and make millions. Has your attitude on China changed? I look at China not as a land of burdens and debt but the land of origin that gave our family its improbable history. I once traveled with Jindo on a long ferry ride to a mansion, the one on the island near Shanghai, where my mother grew up, where Jindo also grew up. I listened to her stories about working in the rice fields, where she wore the conical hat and danced and yelled as she pulled leeches off her calves. She eventually told me what happened to her after our mother left, about the abuse she suffered at the hands of her father’s concubine. As Jindo re-enacted the past, she flung her arms and beat her chest, and it must have appeared that we were having a violent argument. “It was not right,” she said repeatedly, and she meant what her stepmother did to her, and also what her father did to our mother, and what my mother did in choosing to be with a lover rather than with her three daughters, and then in marrying that lover and having three children by him, one of them a daughter, who was sitting next to her, listening to her cry. An answer in the Q&A column on Jan. 26, in which the novelist Amy Tan discussed her relationship with China and how it has changed over time, referred incorrectly to a relative in China. Her half-sister married a surgeon, not a “barefoot doctor.” A version of this article appears in print on January 26, 2014, on page TR3 of the New York edition with the headline: Amy Tan Reflects on China and Uncovering Secrets of Her Origins. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
U.S.   Maryland Shooting News Conference. The Howard County police chief, William J. McMahon, addressed the news media about the deadly shootings at the Mall in Columbia.          
Books   The Read Around: Jennifer Senior. In “All Joy and No Fun,” Jennifer Senior looks at the finding that children do not improve their parents’ happiness.                    
Business   The Princess Problem. Advertisement This week’s puzzle was suggested by Dave Penneys, a mathematics postdoctoral fellow at the University of Toronto. The Princess Problem A princess lives in a row of seventeen adjacent rooms, each connected by a door to each room next to it. Each room also has a door to the outside. The princess enjoys the rooms but never stays in the same room two days in a row: at the end of each day she moves from the room she occupied to one of the rooms next to it (she chooses randomly). On the first of June a prince arrives from a faraway kingdom to woo the princess. The princess’s guardian explains the habits of the princess and the rules he must follow: Each day he may knock on a single outside door. If the princess is behind it she will open it and meet the prince. If not, the prince gets another chance the next day. Unfortunately the prince must return to his kingdom on July 1. Can he devise a strategy to make sure he meets the princess before then? Give it a try with Gary Hewitt’s remarkable Chase the Princess Gizmo:  That’s it for this week’s challenge. We also have a special update this week: Gary Hewitt’s ingenious Enhancer has been redesigned to support The Times’ new comment presentation. Give it a try by clicking enhance once the number of comments is visible above – it should do everything else automatically. If things look out of order, try clicking the purple “enhance” box. Mr. Hewitt would like to know which features are important to his fellow Numberplayers. Email him at numberplay@garyhewitt.net if you have any feedback about the Enhancer. Finally, send your favorite royal puzzle to gary.antonick@NYTimes.com. Solution Check reader comments on Friday for Dave Penneys’ solution and commentary on the week’s discussion.  Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… David Poole has something up his sleeve.Read more… Jacob Stulberg is all wet. Don’t tell him I said that.Read more… The return of John Westwig.Read more… Are you as smart as a fifth-grader? See if you can solve these algebra challenges without using algebra.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   Russians Debate Sticker Price of Sochi Games. Advertisement Advertisement By STEVEN LEE MYERSJAN. 27, 2014 MOSCOW — With less than two weeks to go before the opening of the Winter Olympics in Sochi, the country is finally having a debate — of a sort — over the cost of the event, celebrated as Russia’s triumphal moment on the international stage, yet derided as a bacchanalia of waste and corruption. President Vladimir V. Putin stoked the debate when he recently told a group of television anchors that Russia had spent only 214 billion rubles, or roughly $7 billion, to erect the sporting venues for the games. And less than half of that, he maintained, was government spending. Others, though, say those figures are grossly understated. An organization led by Aleksei A. Navalny, the anticorruption blogger who has become one of the Kremlin’s most prominent critics, has been working for two months to compile a detailed chronicle of Russia’s Olympic spending, culling figures from annual budgets and corporate reports since 2006. The goal is to document the true cost of the Winter Games in an economy that has slowed considerably, and to focus attention on a debate that has occurred so far only on the fringes of public discourse. The organization, the Foundation for the Fight Against Corruption, is to publish the result of its work on Monday on an interactive website. Mr. Putin’s figure was, Mr. Navalny said, “a lie of an absolutely absurd scale.” It is not only one-tenth of the spending that has been widely reported, but it is also less than the $12 billion Mr. Putin pledged in 2007 to spend on the games when he personally appealed to the International Olympic Committee to choose Sochi as the host. That Russia’s first Winter Olympics would be an expensive undertaking has been a given since the government first broke ground on the projects in and around Sochi, which Mr. Putin called “the biggest building site on the planet.” For the first time, though, the cost issue appears to have become politically sensitive for the Kremlin. Advertisement Officials here once boasted of Russia’s ability to spend so lavishly, but of late they have embraced Mr. Putin’s more frugal tone, and have sought to defend the outlays by redefining what constitutes spending on the Olympics. They have argued that the billions poured into projects like the huge new power plant on the edge of the Olympic Village or the adjacent new railroad station should not be counted as Olympic expenditures, but rather as part of a broader economic stimulus project to rebuild the sea-meets-the-mountains resort on the Black Sea. “It’s just senseless to take the cost of everything built in Sochi — and the building of roads in Sochi — and ascribe it to the Games,” Aleksandr D. Zhukov, the deputy speaker of the lower house of Parliament and the chairman of the Russian Olympic Committee, said in an interview. “Were you in Beijing for the Games? They made boulevards twice as wide — built new roads there. What did that have to do with the Olympics?” KAZAKH. Volgograd UKRAINE Volga River RUSSIA Caspian Sea Sochi Black Sea GEORGIA AZER. ARMENIA 100 Miles To critics like Mr. Navalny, however, Sochi has turned into an unaffordable personal vanity project, intended to cement Mr. Putin’s legacy as the driving force of the country’s restoration after the collapse of the Soviet Union more than two decades ago. Advertisement “It actually seems like some small, spiteful pharaoh is building himself the greatest pyramid in the world,” Mr. Navalny said in his organization’s new headquarters in southeastern Moscow, which hummed late into the evening last week with people still crunching the numbers for the report. “There’s no other way to explain the gigantomania,” he said. According to the group’s calculations, Russia has spent more than 1.5 trillion rubles on the Olympics, which at today’s suddenly declining exchange rate would amount to at least $48 billion — more than China spent for the far larger Summer Olympics in 2008. While that figure is roughly comparable with a $50 billion estimate that Russian officials here disclosed a year ago and then quickly disavowed, the group’s calculations are based on detailed accounting of project costs that have remained largely opaque, perhaps on purpose. The website — in Russian and English — documents thousands of expenses salted through Russian federal budgets since the country first applied to host the games. Mr. Navalny said the work was made difficult by the way spending was scattered in myriad accounts. “There is no single source for the figures,” he said. “Every project requires its own investigation.” Mr. Navalny challenged the Kremlin’s assertions that much of the spending was private, not government. When Mr. Putin said that less than half of the figure he cited was federal money, he sidestepped the fact that many of the largest “private” expenditures were made by companies that are state-owned, like Russian Railways, the state bank and Gazprom, Mr. Navalny said. According to his organization’s analysis, less than 4 percent of the overall spending came from truly private companies. Advertisement Mikhail G. Delyagin, an economist in Moscow, said in an interview that as a rule, the Olympic Games rarely prove to be the engines of economic revival that officials claim. “The situation in Sochi is indeed positive, because there wasn’t even a normal sewer system there,” he said, “but one shouldn’t expect that these resorts will recoup the cost.” Mr. Navalny argued that beyond the most visible projects, like the stadiums and arenas, the government also spent heavily on buildings that had nothing to do with the Olympics or even with future tourism in Sochi. They include new residences for Mr. Putin, a church at the Olympic Village, and resorts for various agencies like the prosecutor’s office and the Federal Security Service, all classified in the annual budgets as Olympic projects. “Under the guise of the Olympics, they made themselves a super-magnificent resort for those who have ended up on the ‘Magnitsky List’ and cannot leave the country,” he said, referring to American sanctions that bar travel and investments abroad for certain Russian officials accused of human-rights abuses. The Sochi Olympics are seen as such a national priority — and a personal one for Mr. Putin — that there has been little official debate about the preparations and the costs. The Parliament has not held hearings. The state auditing chamber has compiled a report on spending, but it has not disclosed its findings and would not do so until after the Games, a spokesman said. What criticism there has been of the spending has come from a handful of news organizations and bloggers. Online critics in particular have enthusiastically questioned the building projects and the chronic delays, delved into accusations of cronyism and corruption and mocked absurdities they uncovered. Recently, there was the matter of the men’s room that was observed and photographed by Steve Rosenberg, a BBC journalist, during a visit to the Laura Cross-Country Ski and Biathlon Center in the mountains above Sochi. In a single, sleekly tiled bathroom stall were not one but two toilets, side by side. The image seemed a pas de deux of either poor design and Olympian waste that, for a fleeting moment at least, became a symbol of the entire endeavor. Boris E. Nemtsov, another prominent opposition leader who has written extensively about corruption in the Olympic project, said the Kremlin wanted to now revise Sochi’s budget because of fear of popular outrage and even prosecution, though the latter seems unlikely. “So they shamelessly underestimate the expenses so that people don’t become indignant, and instead say that all we have is like in Canada,” he wrote this week on the website of the independent radio station Ekho Moskvy. Andrey Miroshnichenko, an independent media analyst, questioned whether Mr. Navalny’s report would at last spur a meaningful political debate, and noted that excessive spending and corruption are taken for granted in Russia. “Everyone knows how business is done here,” he said. “Expensiveness is considered a way to redistribute the state’s wealth.” Dmitri A. Medvedev, the former president and now prime minister, acknowledged in an interview with CNN on Wednesday that the larger figure of nearly $50 billion was accurate, but he disputed accusations of excessive waste or corruption. “There is no data on whether the corruption related to the Olympics,” he explained, “is much higher than the average level of corruption in the country.” An earlier version of the picture caption atop this article misspelled the name of the cross-country ski and biathlon center. It is the Laura ski center, not Lauea. Andrew Roth contributed reporting. A version of this article appears in print on January 27, 2014, on page A4 of the New York edition with the headline: Russians Debate Sticker Price of Sochi Games. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Science   Me Versus the Scale Sign Up for the Running Email. Advertisement The scale and I have reached détente. That is: I leave it alone, and it affords me the same courtesy. I rarely step on it, and we’re both better off. I have earned the right of refusal. As someone who weighed herself almost daily between the ages of 10 and 25, who spent six years at fat camps and traveled around the Middle East with a scale buried in the pit of her backpack (I know, I know…), I’ve done my time. I won’t even weigh myself at the doctor’s office. Nothing good can come from the knowledge that I’m three pounds lighter, or two pounds heavier. “People are obsessed with it — they go crazy over a tenth of a pound,” said Jim White, a registered dietitian nutritionist and a spokesman for the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. “I’ve had clients who are losing major inches and body fat and looking and feeling great, but if the scale doesn’t budge they get defeated. The number defines them.” I had pretty much been blessedly scale-free until a few months ago, when I signed up for a month-long, twice-weekly fitness class. Shedding pounds was not my goal; I just wanted a good, hard workout. The instructor insisted on taking our “before” and “after” measurements, including our weight and body fat percentages. I balked, but after the teacher promised “I won’t tell you what it is,” I held my breath and shuffled onto the scale as if to the guillotine. I was curious, of course, but I squeezed my eyes shut and didn’t peek. And that was the end of that — until a week later, when I opened a group email from her and found a list of the entire class’s names, along with our weights and measurements. A ball of rubber bands wove its way from my stomach and lodged in my throat. “Really?” I thought. It seemed a major violation. So many of us can recite the intimate details of our friends’ sex lives, their pharmacological habits, their rents. But question their weights and their mouths clamp shut. Not even the N.S.A. knows that. “How often do we ask someone what they weigh? Unless you really know them well, you don’t,” said Allan Geliebter, a senior researcher at The New York Obesity Nutrition Research Center at St. Luke’s-Roosevelt Hospital Center. “The last thing you tell someone is that they gained a lot of weight.” After stewing about it, I realized that I didn’t really care if 15 strangers knew my weight. I just didn’t want to know — especially since it was about five pounds higher than I would have liked. It haunted me. The teacher apologized. But, she said, the weight was “just a number.” “The real thing you should worry about is body fat.” Indeed, most experts agree that body fat percentage is a better indicator of health than overall weight, with obesity often defined as greater than 25 percent body fat in men and 35 percent in women. Belly, or visceral, fat can be more harmful than the subcutaneous fat found directly under the skin and stored in the thighs and derriere — neither of which a traditional scale gauges. “Weight in itself is an imperfect measurement of health,” said Dr. Philip Schauer, director of the Cleveland Clinic Bariatric and Metabolic Institute. “Someone who is 30 pounds overweight and has mainly a pear shape can be pretty healthy. You can be an apple shape and 30 pounds overweight and have diabetes.” A quicker and more accurate assessment, he said, is measuring waist circumference — more than 35 inches for women or more than 40 inches for men is problematic — or using calipers to determine the amount of fat under the skin. Those measurements tend to be more reliable than body mass index, or B.M.I., which doesn’t distinguish between fatty and lean tissue or take body shape into consideration. So if the scale is such a flawed measure, why is it still so widely used? “It can be an effective tool,” said Jennifer Linde, an associate professor of epidemiology at the University of Minnesota Twin Cities, in Minneapolis. “It gives you feedback every day, and you can coach people to look at the number as a neutral thing. It doesn’t have to be a value judgment.” Presuming it’s possible to look at it as a “neutral” thing, some studies have shown that the more frequently you weigh yourself the better off you are, at least in terms of weight control. A six-month study of overweight and obese adults who were looking to lose weight, published last September in Obesity, confirmed that sentiment. During the study, which included a mobile scale for daily weighing, a web-based weight loss graph and weekly feedback from researchers, participants who weighed themselves daily lost 13 pounds on average. Those in the other group, who weighed themselves weekly, lost nothing. David A. Levitsky, a professor of nutrition and psychology at Cornell University who has conducted studies on the efficacy of daily weighing since 1992, believes that daily self-weighing is necessary to help prevent weight gain. “I don’t see any way that we are going to tax fats or tax soda or have people exercise more in order to control their weight,” he said. “There’s enough data to show that doesn’t work. But if you step on that scale first thing in the morning, that’s protective of those subtle cues in our environment that make us eat a little more than we expend.” The best news, at least for us scale avoiders, is that most medical professionals agree that self-monitoring — whether it is counting calories, writing down how much one eats or weighing oneself regularly — is the greatest predictor of success. Our task is to choose the thing that makes us the least crazy, and stick with it. And that is why, in the end, I skipped getting weighed at my last exercise class. There was no reason to. I felt stronger, my clothes fit better, and that was enough for me. Abby Ellin is the author of “Teenage Waistland: A Former Fat-Camper Weighs in on Living Large, Losing Weight, And How Parents Can (And Can’t) Help.” A version of this article appears in print on 01/28/2014, on page D4 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Me Versus the Scale. Your health questions answered by Times journalists and experts. Your Questions | All » Get Well's Running email for practical tips, expert advice, exclusive content and a bit of motivation delivered to your inbox every week to help you on your running journey. Coming soon. How much do you know about the amazing things that go on in your gut? Take our quiz to find out about the creepy, crawly critters living in your home. What surface is the most friendly to the flu virus? Where’s the best place to stand when you’re talking to a sick person? How does sleep affect health, relationships and well-being? The “Reading the Mind in the Eyes Test” measures ability to understand others’ emotional states. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   30 Seconds With Boomer Esiason. Advertisement Advertisement By JOE BRESCIAJAN. 27, 2014 After an all-American career at Maryland, Boomer Esiason played 14 seasons in the N.F.L. as a quarterback for the Cincinnati Bengals, the Jets and the Arizona Cardinals. He was selected to the Pro Bowl four times and he was named the league’s most valuable player in 1988. Esiason ended his career with 2,969 completions, 5,205 pass attempts, a 57 percent completion mark , 247 touchdown passes and 37,920 yards passing. In 1995, the N.F.L. honored Esiason with the Walter Payton Man of the Year Award in recognition of his excellence on the football field as well as his charitable work through the Boomer Esiason Foundation, which is dedicated to curing cystic fibrosis, and other organizations. After retiring in 1997, he became a commentator for ABC’s “Monday Night Football.” Esiason, 52, currently is a commentator for Westwood One/CBS Radio Sports’ “Monday Night Football” and is a studio analyst for “The NFL Today,” CBS’s pregame show. Along with Craig Carton, he co-hosts WFAN’s weekday morning radio show, “Boomer and Carton in the Morning.” For the next week, Esiason’s life will be full of football and funny. On Jan. 29, Esiason and Carton will M.C. the WFAN Super Comedy Jam at the Hammerstein Ballroom in Manhattan. Then on Jan. 30, Esiason will be roasted by the Friar’s Club to benefit the Boomer Esiason Foundation, the Gift of Laughter Wounded Warrior Program and The N.Y./N.J. Snowflake Youth Foundation. Advertisement Q. Why will Denver win the Super Bowl? A. Denver will win because Peyton Manning is on a mission and in order to fulfill his total mission of vindication and validation, he will finish off a most amazing season by not only winning the Super Bowl for the second time, but also adding the Super Bowl M.V.P. to his N.F.L. regular season M.V.P. Q. Why will Seattle win? A. Seattle will win because Marshawn Lynch and their defense can win in inclement weather. The whipping winds at Met Life Stadium will wreak havoc on the N.F.L.'s best ever passing offense. Advertisement Q. Who do think will win? A. Depends on the weather. If it is a calm day with minimal winds, then Denver; but if it’s a day like Tuesday (snowstorm) today, then Seattle. Q. What do you think about all the trash talking, most recently with Richard Sherman and Michael Crabtree? A. I completely understand the intense nature of the competition on the field. This has been going on for years. It’s so much more prevalent these days because of the intense social media following of the league and its players. When you combine that with the extreme overexposure from the networks in high-def camera, it’s there for all the world to see and opine on. I believe the league has sent out memos to both the referees and all coaches that continued behavior of this sort will be held accountable for via fines. The last thing the N.F.L. wants to see is what we all saw during the postgame interview conducted on Fox with Richard Sherman. It was an extremely embarrassing moment for the league, the Seahawks and Sherman himself. Q. Do you agree with the Jets giving Rex Ryan a contract extension? A. I agree 100 percent with the Jets decision to reward Rex Ryan with a contract extension albeit lukewarm. His extension is tied to incentives so that, if things go wrong next year, the Jets can fire him without significant monetary penalties. I think it’s a healthy compromise between coach and new general manager, John Idzik, to make sure this past season’s 8-8 record was not an aberration. I also believe that continuity and consistency are two main ingredients for a franchise’s long-term success. Paramount to that success is the support towards a young, up and coming quarterback. Q. Should the Jets stick with Geno Smith or draft another quarterback? A. Only internally do the Jets know if Geno has the ability to flourish in the complex world of being an N.F.L. quarterback. From the outside, Smith showed flashes that he could be the long-term solution. What was most impressive, even in the midst of some poor performances on a back-to-back basis, was that Smith was able to rebound with two strong performances in the team’s final two games. In other words, he has made it very difficult for the Jets to have 100 percent confidence that he is the long-term answer. Q. Who do you think will be let go first, Rex Ryan or Tom Coughlin? A. Let me start this by saying that I hope neither one gets let go, but since Coach Coughlin is the proud owner of two of the most improbable Super Bowl victories in history, I would think that Rex Ryan is on thinner ice. Advertisement Q. What do you think about the proposed concussion settlement that was recently rejected by a federal judge? A. Full disclosure. I was not a party to the original suit. But as a former N.F.L. player, I stand to gain from the ultimate agreement. I wondered aloud on my morning show at WFAN about whether or not the initial settlement would be enough. And, why in the world would the players agree to not holding their universities or the N.C.A.A. responsible for potential physical problems that could have occurred while playing in college? And while the total number now remains in dispute, I believe the N.F.L. and the initial plaintiffs could agree on an initial down-payment of $250 million to be made immediately to help those players that desperately need the support today. Q. How do you think the top quarterbacks in the draft - Johnny Manziel, Teddy Bridgewater, Blake Bortles and Derek Carr - will do in the N.F.L.? A. Trying to translate the college game to the pro game with regard to young quarterbacks is one of the most difficult decisions to be made. While every quarterback has the physical measurables needed to succeed, it is the intangibles, such as dealing with adversity and criticism, that separate the successful ones from the failures. Each one of these young men will be given the opportunity of a lifetime, based solely on their performance in college. And then it is up to them to decide if they want to become Peyton Manning or end up like Ryan Leaf. Q. What do you think about the recent group of head coaches hired? A. Unfortunately, the N.F.L. is a world of retreads and dysfunction. So much depends on whether or not the new coach has a quarterback to build around. And if they can’t find that guy it really doesn’t matter what their background is. At least last year, the Philadelphia Eagles thought outside the box with the hiring of Chip Kelly. At this moment, I see more Andy Reid-type situations in the N.F.L. as opposed to what the Eagles did, which ultimately means more of the same. Q. You’re going to be roasted by the Friar’s Club on Jan. 30 to benefit the Boomer Esiason Foundation and the Gift of Laughter Wounded Warrior Program. Who on the dais do you think will give you the harshest treatment? A. I say C.C. (Carton), Sam Wyche, Bill Cowher and Jay Mohr. One thing they have in common, there’s no way that they would’ve been a success without me. Q. Tell me something nobody knows about Carton, your funny and feisty WFAN partner? A. Because Craig is so entertaining and so smart and knows how to get under the skin of sports fans, many people don’t realize how great of a father he is. I could easily nominate C.C. for Father of the Year, every year since the day I met him. Go to Home Page »
Travel   Budget-Friendly and (Almost) Dracula-Free Transylvania. Advertisement Advertisement Seth Kugel FRUGAL TRAVELER JAN. 27, 2014 “Our ways are not your ways, and there shall be to you many strange things,” said a certain sharp-fanged count to his English visitor, freshly arrived by train to Transylvania. In some sense, things haven’t changed much since Bram Stoker published those words in 1897. I arrived by train myself in mid-January and I, too, found strange things: A picture-perfect medieval town square packed not with tourists but primary school students. “Bagel” shops that don’t sell bagels. An Eastern Orthodox priest denouncing guitar lessons and raising bees. Look, I fully intended to experience and write about Transylvania with no mention of vampires or anything described in novel by an Irishman who had never visited the region. I even requested that Twitter followers tracking my travels abstain from Dracula-related remarks. That’s because the real place — now a large swath of central and western Romania and almost certainly the place on earth most commonly mistaken for fictional — is mountainous and beautiful, its ancient towns lively and well preserved, its ethnic and political history rich and complex. In other words, a place well worth discovering in its own right, not digressing to mentions of scary monsters. Advertisement That worked until I was taking money from an A.T.M. in the scrupulously well-preserved medieval center of Sighisoara. Glancing up, I saw the sign: “Banca Transilvania” — and realized I was down the block from a medieval clock tower with torture chamber beneath; across the street was the house where Vlad the Impaler, a.k.a. Draculae, is said to have been born in 1431. A chill went down my spine. In my head, well trained since “Sesame Street” and “Scooby Doo” days in how vampires operate, organ music played, and lightning crackled. I had come to Transylvania in the winter knowing that I would be sacrificing the mountain hikes and farm stays popular among summer visitors — but hoping to find cheaper prices, snow-dusted castles and perhaps a day of skiing. And soul-satisfying food: If there was ever a dish made for post-slope replenishment, it’s Romanian ciorba de burta, the cream-based tripe soup that is rich, ubiquitous and cheap. Alas, there had been no snow for a month, which meant no skiing, no fairy-tale dusting of ancient roofs. Still, having medieval towns and villages of Transylvania to yourself has its advantages. In Brasov, the 250,000-person city where I spent a day, that meant being the lone person gawking at the 16th-century Black Church, framing photographs through old city gates, and wondering at how just about every building in town is marked “Monument Istoric”. Still, some were more obviously Istoric than others. Wandering narrow side streets I fell for a tiny 1837 home with an intricately carved wooden door and faux Corinthian columns bordering the windows; in front of it was a Romanian-made Dacia car propped up half on the sidewalk to allow traffic to pass. The brisk winter temperatures made me more appreciative of bakeries selling warm-from-the-oven breads. In Brasov, I stopped at a shop called Bagel Magic, which in fact serves warm covrigi, which are like bagels Photoshopped like a celebrity for a cover photo — from pudgy and irregular to slender yet curvaceous (without, thankfully, airbrushing out the poppy seeds). Mine cost 1.5 lei, or 45 cents at 3.25 lei to the dollar. In Sighisoara, young and old lined up in the rain to pay one leu for truly piping-hot covrigi at the sales window of Gigi. Brasov is the traditional home base for visits to two castles in the region: Bran and Peles. They could not be more different. Bran Castle is probably the most touristy spot in Transylvania thanks to its completely dubious connections with both the fictional and historic Dracula. But with summer hordes replaced by a handful of Romanian tourists and a school field trip, I quite enjoyed the visit (the 25-lei admission price didn’t hurt). Perched almost precariously on the side of a hill, the castle — which once served as a toll collector’s headquarters and a defense post against Ottoman aggressors — truly seems like the sort of place a vampire might have lived. In fact, I found out, the home was last used as a residence by the Romanian royal family before it was seized by the Communist government, and it is decorated largely from that period. (Although on the higher levels, things did get a tiny bit creepy — up there, where wind swirled and whistled outside, I came upon some restrained displays about Dracula.) Peles Castle is a wholly different and entirely more mind-boggling experience. Built by King Carol I as a summer residence beginning in 1873, its lavish halls are filled with endlessly ornate detail, like a Versailles for the late 19th century: Carol seems to have spared no expense in the Arab and Turkish-themed rooms; his astoundingly vast European arms collection — swords, battle axes, guns — is displayed in all its excess in one hall, along with a full-on man and horse armor display that will leave no medieval fantasist unhappy. In an adjoining room is his collection of Ottoman and Persian arms, so flowery and ornate by comparison that they look runway-ready for Constantinople Fashion Week. Still, Sighisoara, under three hours from Brasov by train (and free for me, as it was the first leg of my already-purchased return trip to Budapest), was the highlight. I’m very picky about medieval walled towns, having skewered places from Dubrovnik, Croatia, to Èze, France, as little more than polished museum pieces. But unlike those places (and true to what guidebooks said), Sighisoara is truly living medieval town, its 16th- through 18th-century homes largely still inhabited. When I stopped into a place called the Medieval Cafe for a 5-lei warm winter drink made of black currants, I could hear children playing in the neighboring schoolyard; I would later see the same kids rushing out of school in the square in front of the clock tower, which in many other places would be strictly tourist territory. Advertisement The city walls are guarded over by eclectic watchtowers, each maintained by (and named for) a different guild of historic craftsmen — tailors, tanners, cobblers, furriers, rope makers. But the clock tower is the true fairy-tale attraction. It was first built in the 13th and 14th centuries; a Baroque roof was added in the 17th century, along with its most charming element, seven figurines based on Greek and Roman gods that rotate each day of the week. From the belvedere at the top (which you reach through the creaky-floored museum, 12 lei) you get a remarkable 360-degree view of the city; astonishingly, I could spot barely a single building, even in the more modern lower city, that appeared to have been built in the 20th or 21st century. Eager to see the much-touted Carpathian villages, I rented a car (I paid in euros, the equivalent of $33 a day) and drove out to the rural villages, many of which feature impressive fortified Saxon churches. That Saxon population, which once dominated many of the villages, has since largely evacuated to Germany, replaced by Romanians, Hungarians and Roma, the three largest ethnic groups in Transylvania today. (For those wondering, the last Romanian census counted zero vampires, though admittedly was largely taken in the daylight.) After passing through Biertan, whose church was closed and residents not very chatty, I found a warmer reception a mile or so away in Copsa Mare. In the local magazin mixt — the cool Romanian term for convenience store — a woman used hand gestures to explain that I should knock at the house next to the church; there, an adolescent boy fetched the key and led me through its battered arched doorway. The old church wasn’t anything special, although the experience of getting into it had been. So I left a donation in the bowl and took off to wander the town. It was a village of dirt roads and modest, mostly Saxon-style houses; I noticed nothing out of the ordinary except several young girls carrying around guitars. When a young man pulling buckets of water from a well spoke to me in near perfect English, I asked him about the guitars. “There’s a lady in the town who is teaching the children,” he said. “Great!” I said. He did not agree. He was the town’s Orthodox priest, and the guitar lessons, he said, were an effort to recruit families to the Pentecostal church in town. He introduced himself as John (his name is actually Ioan Bico) and seemed delighted to entertain me for the next few hours. He may have been a priest, but he wielded a sharp tongue recounting an opinionated chapter of the town’s recent ethnic history. To summarize: the Saxons used to refuse to marry Romanians, yet when they moved to Germany, the men found themselves discriminated against and returned to marry not only Romanians but even the more-maligned Roma. (He called them Gypsies, and they were not spared maligning from him either.) Advertisement He eventually invited me over for a beer — nonalcoholic for me, he insisted, since I was driving — and to see the icons he paints and sells to supplement his meager pay. He was also a beekeeper, and I happily bought a jar of honey for 20 lei. Conversation ranged from Hollywood to the Internet to birth control and abortion. (He did not think highly of any of the four.) I had not eaten since breakfast, so I headed back to Sighisoara in search of a reasonably priced meal. Finding the pub-like Cafe Martini near the town center, I ordered a feast as most customers just drank beer and listened to a soundtrack lost in the ‘80s (Springsteen, Tina Turner, Asia). I had that tripe soup called ciorba de burta, mititei (grilled ground meat patties), cascaval pane (breaded, fried cheese), and the great Romanian dessert of papanasi (hot doughnuts, topped with sour cream and currant jam) — and returned, stuffed, to my guesthouse. I was staying at Casa Soare, a family-run pension in the lower town, a 10-minute walk down from the citadel, where I had scored a winter discount at 80 lei a night — about 20 percent off the Booking.com price — by calling in advance. It was a nice place and worth the modest expense, but I had two lodging regrets. The first — that I had not stayed in a village or on a farm — was unavoidable: Most rural guesthouses were closed for the winter. But I realized I had missed an opportunity when I picked up my rental car at Casa Baroca, just down the block from the Vlad Dracul house. I got a tour of the place, and it was amazing. Entering through the 300 year-old front door, I found rooms under vaulted ceilings decorated with traditional furniture, antique wood stoves, old wood floors. And winter prices were only slightly more than what I was paying: 100 lei, down from 140 in summer. Advertisement Still, perhaps I was better off at my place. Staying at Casa Baroca, I had learned, would be in violation of a town ordinance forbidding foreigners to lodge in the citadel. Admittedly, the law was written around 1515 and is probably not still in effect, but in a city with a torture chamber, you can’t be too careful. For more photos from Transylvania, go to Seth Kugel’s public Facebook page or follow him on Instagram, @sethkugel. See More » Go to Home Page »
Business   Wheelies: The Detroit Rising Edition. Advertisement Advertisement By BENJAMIN PRESTONJAN. 28, 2014 A roundup of motoring news from the web: ■ This year’s Detroit auto show reported its highest attendance in more than 10 years. A total of 803,451 people visited the 2014 show — a significant one for General Motors, which took both the North American car and truck of the year awards. Attendance has not been that high since 838,066 people came to the show in 2003. (Jalopnik) ■ In its efforts to get people used to the idea that its new F-150 pickup trucks will be built with aluminum bodies, Ford told its dealers Sunday that the new trucks will actually be cheaper and easier to repair than the outgoing model. Ford said that the aluminum bodies are set up in a modular design — as opposed to the welded design of the old steel trucks — that simplifies repairs by making them less time-consuming. (Reuters) ■ In other F-150-related news, Ford says that the new 2.7-liter V6 the automaker introduced with the new pickup has a unique two-piece engine block. Most engines are either all aluminum or all cast iron, but Ford’s new engine has an upper part — housing the cylinder bores — made from compacted graphite iron and a lower half made from aluminum. The unusual construction allowed Ford to make the engine very small; it is only 18 inches long from front to back. (Automotive News, subscription required) ■ BMW says that its all-electric i3 will arrive in American showrooms in May, priced similarly to the 3 Series. Ludwig Willisch, who heads BMW North America, said that the United States would be the company’s largest market for the i Series electric cars, adding that demand for the i3 will most likely outstrip supply in the first year of production. (Bloomberg) Advertisement ■ Volvo and Zhejiang Geely Holding Group, of which Volvo is a subsidiary, will jointly develop a small car to compete with the Ford Fiesta, Honda Fit, Toyota Yaris and Volkswagen Polo, among others. Engineering work is to be done at a research and development center in Sweden, and Hakan Samuelsson, chief executive of Volvo, told The Wall Street Journal that the car would be designed to compete in Western markets in a few years. (Automotive News, subscription required) ■ After many races lost to teams with superior equipment, Scuderia Ferrari unveiled its new Formula One racecar on its website over the weekend. The F14 T drops last season’s 2.4-liter V8 in favor of a new turbocharged 1.6-liter V6 and features a lower nose cone and an improved energy recovery system. (CNN) ■ Ralph Marano, a noted Packard collector, is scheduled to take 10 one-of-a-kind Packards this year to the Amelia Island Concours d'Élégance. The show’s organizers agreed to create a class entirely for Mr. Marano’s unique collection of vehicles, which include the Vignale Packard and the Richard Arbib-designed Packard Pan America. (Hemmings Daily) ■ Nissan announced this week its plan to use a 400-horsepower turbocharged 1.5-liter 3-cylinder engine that weighed only 88 pounds in its delta-shaped Le Mans racecar. Nissan claims the engine has a power-to-weight ratio of 10 horsepower per kilogram, which the automaker says is more potent than Formula One’s new 1.6-liter engines. (Automobile Magazine) Go to Home Page »
Business   Accidents Surge as Oil Industry Takes the Train. Advertisement Advertisement By CLIFFORD KRAUSS and JAD MOUAWADJAN. 25, 2014 CASSELTON, N.D. — Kerry’s Kitchen is where Casselton residents gather for gossip and comfort food, especially the caramel rolls baked fresh every morning. But a fiery rail accident last month only a half mile down the tracks, which prompted residents to evacuate the town, has shattered this calm, along with people’s confidence in the crude-oil convoys that rumble past Kerry’s seven times a day. What was first seen as a stopgap measure in the absence of pipelines has become a fixture in the nation’s energy landscape — about 200 “virtual pipelines” that snake in endless processions across the horizon daily. It can take more than five minutes for a single oil train, made up of about 100 tank cars, to pass by Kerry’s, giving this bedroom community 20 miles west of Fargo a front-row seat to the growing practice of using trains to carry oil. “I feel a little on edge — actually very edgy — every time one of those trains passes,” said Kerry Radermacher, who owns the coffee shop. “Most people think we should slow the production, and the trains, down.” Casselton is near the center of the great oil and gas boom unleashed these last few years. And it has seen up close how trains have increasingly been used to transport the oil from the new fields of Colorado, Wyoming and North Dakota, in part as a result of delays in the approval of the Keystone XL pipeline. About 400,000 carloads of crude oil traveled by rail last year to the nation’s refineries, up from 9,500 in 2008, according to the Association of American Railroads. But a series of recent accidents — including one in Quebec last July that killed 47 people and another in Alabama last November — have prompted many to question these shipments and have increased the pressure on regulators to take an urgent look at the safety of the oil shipments. Advertisement In the race for profits and energy independence, critics say producers took shortcuts to get the oil to market as quickly as possible without weighing the hazards of train shipments. Today about two-thirds of the production in North Dakota’s Bakken shale oil field rides on rails because of a shortage of pipelines. And more than 10 percent of the nation’s total oil production is shipped by rail. Since March there have been no fewer than 10 large crude spills in the United States and Canada because of rail accidents. The number of gallons spilled in the United States last year, federal records show, far outpaced the total amount spilled by railroads from 1975 to 2012. Railroad executives, meeting with the transportation secretary and federal regulators recently, pledged to look for ways to make oil convoys safer — including slowing down the trains or rerouting them from heavily populated areas. (Trains go up to roughly 35 miles an hour through towns and at higher speeds outside populated areas.) They also agreed to speed up a review of tougher standards for the train cars used for oil. And last Thursday, safety officials urged regulators to quickly improve industry standards. Advertisement “This is an industry that has developed overnight, and they have been playing catch-up with the infrastructure,” said Deborah A. P. Hersman, the chairwoman of the National Transportation Safety Board, which is investigating the Casselton accident. “A lot of what we’ve seen could have been a lot worse.” But given the fragmented nature of the business — different companies produce the oil, own the rail cars, and run the railroads — there is no firm consensus on what to do. And few analysts expect new regulations this year. “There was no political pressure to address this issue in the past, but there clearly is now,” said Brigham A. McCown, a former administrator of the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration. “Producers need to understand that rail-car safety can become an impediment to production.” The stakes are high. In five years, domestic oil production has jumped by 50 percent, to reach 7.5 million barrels a day last year. But with little pipeline infrastructure, energy producers had to scramble for new ways to get their oil to refiners. Rail was the answer. “The reality is that this came out of nowhere,” said Anthony B. Hatch, a rail transport consultant. “Rail has gone from near-obsolescence to being critical to oil supplies. It’s as if the buggy-whips were back in style.” Advertisement Far more toxic products are shipped on trains. But those products, like chlorine, are transported in pressurized vessels designed to survive an accident. Crude oil, on the other hand, is shipped in a type of tank car that entered service in 1964 and that has been traditionally used for nonflammable hazardous liquids like liquid fertilizers. Safety officials have warned for more than two decades that these cars were unsuited to carry flammable cargo: their shell can puncture and tears up too easily in a crash. In 2009, a train carrying ethanol derailed and exploded, killing one person in Cherry Valley, Ill. The National Transportation Safety Board said the inadequate design of the tank cars made them “subject to damage and catastrophic loss of hazardous materials.” As domestic oil production has increased rapidly in recent years, more and more of it is being transported by rail because of the lack of pipeline capacity. The trains often travel through populated areas, leading to concerns among residents over the hazards they can pose, including spills and fires. 400 thousand Number of oil freight railroad cars 300 Some major oil freight railroad lines Casselton 200 Glenwood 100 Portage Minneapolis/St. Paul Milwaukee Chicago ’05 ’07 ’09 ’11 ’13 Kansas City 3.0 billion barrels Shale plays Topeka St. Louis U.S. oil field production 2.5 Parsons Dexter Junction Stroud Bakersfield El Reno 2.0 Memphis Midwest City Little Rock Pine Bluff 1.5 Fort Worth Monroe Odessa Share transported by rail 1.0 Hearne Houston St. James Harwood 0.5 Galveston 10% Gardendale 7% 0.0 2% 1% ’05 ’07 ’09 ’11 ’13 After that accident, railroads and car owners agreed in 2011 to beef up new cars with better protections and thicker steel. But they resisted improving safety features on the existing fleet because of cost. They also argued that thousands of new cars were being ordered anyway, so it would be just a matter of time before the fleet was replaced. But analysts said that time has run out; railroads and car owners can no longer ignore the liabilities associated with oil trains, which could reach $1 billion in the Quebec accident. “Quebec shocked the industry,” Mr. Hatch said, adding that while rail safety has improved over all, “the consequences of any accident are rising.” Last November, the Association of American Railroads said it would support requiring that the 92,000 tank cars used to transport flammable liquids, including crude oil, be retrofitted with better safety features or “aggressively phased out.” Still, other groups have resisted. The Railway Supply Institute, which represents freight car owners, told regulators three weeks before the Casselton accident that existing cars “already provide substantial protection in the event of a derailment” and suggested minor modifications to be phased in over 10 years. Advertisement While the safety record of railroads has improved in recent years, the surge in oil transportation has meant a spike in spill rates. From 1975 to 2012, federal records show, railroads spilled 800,000 gallons of crude oil. Last year alone, they spilled more than 1.15 million gallons, according to an analyis of data from the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration done by McClatchy Newspapers. That figure includes the Casselton spill, estimated at about 400,000 gallons. The accidents have also created a sense of weariness among elected officials and even staunch oil backers. North Dakota Gov. Jack Dalrymple, a Republican, insisted that the first priority was improving tank cars. “These exploding tank cars are obviously very powerful and very dangerous,” he said. The accidents have brought another problem to light. Crude oil produced in the Bakken appears to be a lot more volatile than other grades of oil, something that could explain why the oil trains have had huge explosions. Here too, the warnings came too late. Federal regulators started analyzing samples from a few Bakken wells last year to test their flammability. In an alert issued on Jan. 2, P.H.M.S.A. said the crude posed a “significant fire risk” in an accident. The Federal Railroad Administration also pointed to rising numbers of oil cars that showed a “form of severe corrosion” on the inside of the tanks, covers and valves. After the recent meeting with regulators, the American Petroleum Institute pledged it would share its own test data about the oil, which they have said is proprietary. While the tank cars themselves have not caused any accident, they failed to contain their cargo. That happened on the outskirts of Casselton when a 106-car oil train crashed into a soybean train that derailed on a parallel track. Advertisement In a preliminary report, the N.T.S.B. said 18 of the 20 oil tank cars that derailed were punctured. Much of the oil spilled was incinerated by the explosions, and some soaked into nearby corn fields. Aside from evacuating nearby farms, there was little the fire department could do but watch the train burn. Tim McLean, Casselton’s fire chief, pictured what the town would look like if an oil train derailed. The large propane supply tank would explode “like a bomb” and incinerate two multifamily houses next to it. Five blocks to the west are a lumber yard and two gasoline stations. Oil might accumulate in storm sewers and possibly spread a fire underground. “There’s virtually no way we could protect these buildings,” he said as he passed the barber shops, drugstore and pizza parlor, all occupying sturdy brick buildings more than a century old. “It would be too hot.” The terror of what might have happened hit many here immediately. Adrian Kieffer, the assistant fire chief, rushed to the accident and spent nearly 12 hours there, finishing at 3 a.m. “When I got home that night, my wife said let’s sell our home and move,” he said. An article last Sunday about the dangers posed by increased shipping of crude oil by rail omitted credit for a data analysis showing the quantity of oil spilled in rail shipments in 2013. It was done by McClatchy Newspapers, using data from the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration. It was not analyzed by the administration itself. In addition, an accompanying chart omitted a label in one section. The bar chart of oil freight rail cars should have indicated the numbers were in thousands. The article also described the Casselton spill incorrectly in relation to last year’s spillage. The 400,000 gallons spilled at Casselton was included in the overall 1.15 million gallons spilled; it was not excluded. And a credit for a picture of a fiery rail accident in Casselton, N.D., in December misidentified the photographer. The picture was taken by Dawn Faught, a local photographer — not by the son of a coffee shop owner on whose phone it appeared. A version of this article appears in print on January 26, 2014, on page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Accidents Surge as Oil Industry Takes the Train. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Foreign   China Sentences Legal Activist to 4 Years for Role in Protests. Advertisement Advertisement By ANDREW JACOBS and CHRIS BUCKLEYJAN. 25, 2014 BEIJING — A Chinese court sentenced a prominent legal activist to four years in prison Sunday in a case widely seen as a demonstration of the Communist Party leadership’s determination to quell any challenges to its hold on power. The activist, Xu Zhiyong, was convicted of “gathering a crowd to disturb public order,” a charge that stemmed from his role organizing a grass-roots New Citizens Movement, which sought to give voice to public discontent over official corruption and social injustice. After a judge of the No. 1 Intermediate People’s Court in Beijing announced the guilty verdict and sentence, Mr. Xu denounced the trial as he was led away by guards, said one of Mr. Xu’s lawyers, Zhang Qingfang. “He said, ‘The court today has completely destroyed what remained of respect for rule of law in China,’ and then he was taken away,” said Mr. Zhang. His account of the verdict and Mr. Xu’s comment was confirmed by the other defense lawyer, Yang Jinzhu. “He can still appeal, but this outcome was decided by the senior leaders, and there’s no hope of changing the verdict,” Mr. Zhang said. He said the court could have imposed a maximum sentence of five years. Advertisement The judgment, coming unusually swiftly after a trial Wednesday, will silence Mr. Xu for now. But the sentence could also enhance Mr. Xu’s prominence as an advocate for political liberalization. Mr. Xu and his two lawyers remained silent in protest for most of the proceedings, but Mr. Xu used his concluding statement to deliver part of an impassioned manifesto for democratic change, free speech and rule of law. The full text has circulated on the Internet. For the verdict hearing, the police stood guard for blocks around the courthouse, keeping away journalists, diplomats and ordinary citizens concerned about the case. Journalists who tried to approach the court were told to leave. As the first prosecution of a high-profile activist under Xi Jinping, the Communist Party secretary who took power in November 2012, the case was seen as a barometer of how China’s new leadership — the first in a decade — would respond to organized calls for reform. Some liberal intellectuals and rights advocates initially hoped that Mr. Xi would be more tolerant than his predecessor, Hu Jintao, of mild campaigns for change. In 2012, Mr. Xu helped promote the New Citizens Movement, an organization that drew up to 5,000 members dedicated to fighting government graft and education policies restricting the children of rural migrants from attending big city schools. While many of the group’s activities involved informal discussions at restaurants across the country, some of its members took part in small street rallies in 2012 and early 2013 that unnerved the Communist Party leadership. Prosecutors claimed Mr. Xu was the “ringleader” of several protests in Beijing during which participants held aloft banners denouncing corruption or demanding an end to the nation’s discriminatory education policies. Other participants in the New Citizens Movement and similar protests also face prosecution, including two who stood trial in the two days after Mr. Xu’s trial. Four others face trial Monday in Beijing, according to Human Rights in China. Legal experts and human rights advocates described the prosecution of Mr. Xu as deeply flawed. His lawyers were not allowed to cross-examine prosecution witnesses, whose testimony was submitted in writing only so they did not appear in court. Nor were the defense lawyers permitted to call in witnesses of their own. Advertisement Mr. Xu’s lawyers unsuccessfully challenged the legality of holding separate trials for the New Citizens Movement defendants in Beijing, a move they said prevented them from benefiting from testimony that could help in their defense. Mr. Zhang, one of his lawyers, called the trial last Wednesday “a piece of theater.” Nicholas Bequelin, a senior researcher at Human Rights Watch in Hong Kong, said Mr. Xu’s slapdash prosecution and the sentence were designed to deter others seeking to agitate against the Communist Party’s monopoly on power. “It sends out the message that the law is essentially a tool for the party to rule the citizenry, not for the citizenry to curtail the power of the state,” he said. Andrew Jacobs reported from Beijing, and Chris Buckley from Hong Kong. A version of this article appears in print on January 26, 2014, on page A11 of the New York edition with the headline: China Sentences Legal Activist to 4 Years for Role in Protests. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Society   And Their Beat Goes On. Advertisement Advertisement By VINCENT M. MALLOZZIJAN. 26, 2014 Margaret Mary Ocampo and Benjamin Paul Scheck were married Saturday at St. Andrew Avellino Roman Catholic Church in Flushing, Queens. Msgr. Michael J. Brennan, a Roman Catholic priest, performed the ceremony. The bride, 26, teaches fourth grade at Public School 169 in the Bronx. She graduated magna cum laude from Queens College and received a master’s degree in the literacy specialist program at Columbia. She is a daughter of Monserrat M. Washburn of East Meadow, N.Y., and Jaime M. Ocampo of Queens Village. The groom, also 26, is a certified public accountant who works in Manhattan as an internal auditor with Advance Publications, a publisher of magazines and newspapers. He graduated from Baruch College, where he also received a master’s degree in taxation. He is the son of Angela Scheck and Robert I. Scheck of Flushing. The couple met in 2005 when they were high school seniors at St. Francis Preparatory School in Fresh Meadows, Queens. Advertisement “We sat across from each other in a computer class,” Mr. Scheck recalled. “I had never seen her before. I really wanted to get to know her.” Eventually he completed that assignment. “It took about a month; I had to build up a little courage,” he said. “She was a lot of fun, being with her just seemed right.” They were soon inseparable. “I liked the fact that we had a similar sense of humor,” Ms. Ocampo said. “We also both loved music; he was more a fan of classic rock and I liked classical and pop.” That shared love led to the creation of their rock band, Cover Fire, during their senior year in college. She is the lead singer. He plays bass guitar. “It’s still a lot of fun,” Ms. Ocampo said. On Nov. 22, 2012, Mr. Scheck proposed to Ms. Ocampo beneath the Arc de Triomphe in Paris. “I was taking photos and then I turned around to find him down on one knee,” she said. “At that point we had been going out for years and had been on so many trips together that I really didn’t expect anything. I was truly shocked.” VINCENT M. MALLOZZI A version of this article appears in print on January 26, 2014, on page ST13 of the New York edition with the headline: And Their Beat Goes On. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Sports   Ducks Triumph at Dodger Stadium as Volleyballs and Frisbees Fly. Advertisement Advertisement By KAREN CROUSEJAN. 26, 2014 LOS ANGELES — Outdoor hockey, Southern California-style, debuted Saturday night with face-offs and Frisbees, spiked volleyballs and a stuffed penalty shot, Bob Miller partnering with Vin Scully and the iconoclastic pitcher Brian Wilson mingling with the icon Wayne Gretzky. The temperature at the start of the history-making game at Dodger Stadium between the Kings and the visiting Anaheim Ducks, rivals separated by 31 miles of interstate, was 61 degrees with a slight breeze. The balmy weather notwithstanding, it was easy to get the chills during the first regular-season outdoor hockey game in California, won by the Ducks in a 3-0 shutout. First there was a joint introduction by the Kings’ Miller and the Dodgers’ Scully, the city’s two legendary broadcasters. Then Gretzky performed the ceremonial opening puck drop, the only man for the honor given how he single-handedly made hockey cool in warm-weather cities. By the time the game started, the crowd of 54,099 was in full roar, with “Go Kings Go” cries followed by chants of “Beat L.A.” It was left to Jonas Hiller, the Ducks goaltender, to silence the Kings crowd, and he was more than up to the task. Hiller, who will represent Switzerland at next month’s Sochi Games, made 36 saves, including 20 in the opening 20 minutes, to leave his mark in the hallowed home of Koufax and Kershaw, where other visitors have included the Beatles and the Pope. Advertisement Corey Perry, who described the experience of playing outdoors as “getting back to your roots,” swept a loose puck past the Kings’ goaltender, Jonathan Quick, in the third minute for his 28th goal of the season. Matt Beleskey redirected the puck past Quick less than six minutes later. Collecting the second assist was Teemu Selanne, 43, who first graced a Ducks jersey in February of 1996, when Beleskey was 7. Asked if he enjoyed the game, Selanne said: “Absolutely. Way more than a normal game. It was a great experience.” For the Ducks, maybe. In the 10th minute, Anze Kopitar was awarded a penalty shot but he was stopped by Hiller. When Kopitar failed to score, the air went out of the lungs of the Kings fans. Anyone who follows the team knows well its recent struggles to put the puck in the net. In their last five games, all losses, the Kings have been outscored, 16-8. They haven’t scored since Kopitar’s goal in the fourth minute of their game Thursday against the Ducks in Anaheim. The puck at times bounced off players’ sticks like a bad grounder off a shortstop’s glove. The ice, while slushier than usual, was not terrible. Ben Lovejoy, the Ducks defenseman responsible for hooking Kopitar to set up the penalty shot, had described the ice as “good enough” after practicing on it Friday. On the eve of the game, Lovejoy said, “We might not want to skate on this ice 82 times a year, but for one night against the Kings in January this is going to be the best thing that’s happened to hockey in Southern California.” Since Gretzky, that is. The Battle at the Ballpark, as Miller coined it, was a spectacle that Gretzky built one point at a time during his eight years as the National Hockey League’s L.A.-based proselytizer of puck. He delivered everything to Southern California but the Stanley Cup, and since his retirement both the Kings and Ducks have taken care of that piece of unfinished business, with the Ducks winning the N.H.L. championship in 2007 and the Kings taking the title in 2012. “If somebody would tell me 10 years ago that we’re going to have an outdoor game here, that would really sound crazy,” Selanne said. “Everything is different now than it used to be. California has become a big hockey place.” Advertisement The rock band KISS, conceived in New York and commanded by Gene Simmons, performed before the game and during the first intermission. Five for Fighting — the rock band, not a group of Vancouver Canucks – performed in the second intermission. When the hockey stopped, the children’s bandy game and the adult beach volleyball matches began anew, headlined by Kerri Walsh Jennings, a three-time Olympic gold medalist who also happens to be a die-hard fan of the Dodgers’ big rivals, the San Francisco Giants. Other sports luminaries in attendance included Wilson, the Dodgers’ Mohawk-shorn pitcher, Yasiel Puig, Fernando Valenzuela and Tommy Lasorda. On this might it did not matter if you were a Dodger hater or a beloved former Dodger, a Ducks fan or a Kings fan, a hockey purist or an arriviste here to watch and be seen. What mattered was that on an unusually warm winter’s night, the beach balls and the Frisbees and the sand and the rock musicians were the side shows and the N.H.L., in a twist that would have been inconceivable a quarter of a century ago, was the main act. Go to Home Page »
Travel   Amy Tan’s Evolving Sense of China. Advertisement Advertisement By KENAN CHRISTIANSENJAN. 24, 2014 In 1949, Amy Tan’s mother boarded one of the last ships heading from Shanghai to San Francisco before “China became Red China and the bamboo curtain descended.” There, her mother reunited with her husband and the couple relocated to Oakland, where a couple of years later she was born. As a child, she knew little more about China than an “American pastiche of stereotypes,” and that some of her family had been lucky enough to make it out, while others had not. For years she organized her thinking around those divisions, until revelations about her family and the country her parents fled broke them down. Below are excerpts from correspondence with Ms. Tan, 61, whose latest novel is “The Valley of Amazement,” about how her relationship with China changed over time. Q. What were your earliest thoughts about China? A. Growing up in the 1950s and 1960s, I thought of China as a prison that everyone wanted to escape. My parents considered themselves lucky that they were able to leave before 1949. Other family members were not quite as lucky and wound up in Formosa — that’s what we called Taiwan in those days. They sent us letters that described hard work and lack of proper food, hygiene and clothing. In their photos, they looked shockingly weathered and shiny with sweat. We received no letters from China and prayed for those silent ones whose whereabouts were unknown. If America was heaven, Formosa would be limbo, and China would be hell. Were you ever in contact with those family members before visiting?  When I was 16, after my father died, my mother told me that she had been married to another man in Shanghai before she met my father. I could hardly comprehend this stunning news, when she added she also had three daughters in China. She did not explain why they were in China, whereas she was in California. Years later she would only say that her previous husband had been a bad man. If I pressed her she would have said that I did not understand because I was an American. That was her typical lament when I did not seem to appreciate the tragedies of her life, like the suicide of her mother, which left her alone — abandoned, really — at the age of 9. She showed me their photos. The middle daughter, Jindo, was beautiful. She resembled my mother. She also fit the stereotype of peasants I had imagined in childhood. She wore a conical hat and farmer’s clothing, and she was standing next to a rice field. That could have been my life. Afterward, China was no longer an invisible jail. I now imagined myself living there, wearing a conical hat and writing letters late at night to my mother, in beautiful Chinese calligraphy like that of my newfound sisters. “I dream every day you will return,” Jindo had written her. “When you do, my happiness will be restored.” Advertisement Did she return? Yes, in 1979, after a 30-year separation, my mother went to visit her three daughters. Jindo lived in a village of rice farmers. She had married a surgeon, and they and several comrades served my mother a modest feast in a shack whose walls were lined with newspaper to keep out the cold. When was your first visit? In 1987, my mother, husband and I went together. We stepped out of the plane into an airport painted toothpaste green. I had assumed I would blend in with the masses. Instead, I was surrounded by locals who gawked at me and made open comments about my outlandish purple clothing. These days, I go about once a year. The most gleamingly modern airports I’ve been to are in China. The coolest and most technologically challenging hotel I’ve ever stayed in is in China. The most tricked-out hair salon I’ve been to is in China. The worst pollution I’ve endured is in China. I keep going back for more of the most. Not everyone wants to escape anymore. In fact, it is more often the case that Chinese students go to the U.S. to study and return to start companies and make millions. Has your attitude on China changed? I look at China not as a land of burdens and debt but the land of origin that gave our family its improbable history. I once traveled with Jindo on a long ferry ride to a mansion, the one on the island near Shanghai, where my mother grew up, where Jindo also grew up. I listened to her stories about working in the rice fields, where she wore the conical hat and danced and yelled as she pulled leeches off her calves. She eventually told me what happened to her after our mother left, about the abuse she suffered at the hands of her father’s concubine. As Jindo re-enacted the past, she flung her arms and beat her chest, and it must have appeared that we were having a violent argument. “It was not right,” she said repeatedly, and she meant what her stepmother did to her, and also what her father did to our mother, and what my mother did in choosing to be with a lover rather than with her three daughters, and then in marrying that lover and having three children by him, one of them a daughter, who was sitting next to her, listening to her cry. An answer in the Q&A column on Jan. 26, in which the novelist Amy Tan discussed her relationship with China and how it has changed over time, referred incorrectly to a relative in China. Her half-sister married a surgeon, not a “barefoot doctor.” A version of this article appears in print on January 26, 2014, on page TR3 of the New York edition with the headline: Amy Tan Reflects on China and Uncovering Secrets of Her Origins. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
U.S.   Maryland Shooting News Conference. The Howard County police chief, William J. McMahon, addressed the news media about the deadly shootings at the Mall in Columbia.          
Books   The Read Around: Jennifer Senior. In “All Joy and No Fun,” Jennifer Senior looks at the finding that children do not improve their parents’ happiness.                    
Business   The Princess Problem. Advertisement This week’s puzzle was suggested by Dave Penneys, a mathematics postdoctoral fellow at the University of Toronto. The Princess Problem A princess lives in a row of seventeen adjacent rooms, each connected by a door to each room next to it. Each room also has a door to the outside. The princess enjoys the rooms but never stays in the same room two days in a row: at the end of each day she moves from the room she occupied to one of the rooms next to it (she chooses randomly). On the first of June a prince arrives from a faraway kingdom to woo the princess. The princess’s guardian explains the habits of the princess and the rules he must follow: Each day he may knock on a single outside door. If the princess is behind it she will open it and meet the prince. If not, the prince gets another chance the next day. Unfortunately the prince must return to his kingdom on July 1. Can he devise a strategy to make sure he meets the princess before then? Give it a try with Gary Hewitt’s remarkable Chase the Princess Gizmo:  That’s it for this week’s challenge. We also have a special update this week: Gary Hewitt’s ingenious Enhancer has been redesigned to support The Times’ new comment presentation. Give it a try by clicking enhance once the number of comments is visible above – it should do everything else automatically. If things look out of order, try clicking the purple “enhance” box. Mr. Hewitt would like to know which features are important to his fellow Numberplayers. Email him at numberplay@garyhewitt.net if you have any feedback about the Enhancer. Finally, send your favorite royal puzzle to gary.antonick@NYTimes.com. Solution Check reader comments on Friday for Dave Penneys’ solution and commentary on the week’s discussion.  Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… David Poole has something up his sleeve.Read more… Jacob Stulberg is all wet. Don’t tell him I said that.Read more… The return of John Westwig.Read more… Are you as smart as a fifth-grader? See if you can solve these algebra challenges without using algebra.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   Russians Debate Sticker Price of Sochi Games. Advertisement Advertisement By STEVEN LEE MYERSJAN. 27, 2014 MOSCOW — With less than two weeks to go before the opening of the Winter Olympics in Sochi, the country is finally having a debate — of a sort — over the cost of the event, celebrated as Russia’s triumphal moment on the international stage, yet derided as a bacchanalia of waste and corruption. President Vladimir V. Putin stoked the debate when he recently told a group of television anchors that Russia had spent only 214 billion rubles, or roughly $7 billion, to erect the sporting venues for the games. And less than half of that, he maintained, was government spending. Others, though, say those figures are grossly understated. An organization led by Aleksei A. Navalny, the anticorruption blogger who has become one of the Kremlin’s most prominent critics, has been working for two months to compile a detailed chronicle of Russia’s Olympic spending, culling figures from annual budgets and corporate reports since 2006. The goal is to document the true cost of the Winter Games in an economy that has slowed considerably, and to focus attention on a debate that has occurred so far only on the fringes of public discourse. The organization, the Foundation for the Fight Against Corruption, is to publish the result of its work on Monday on an interactive website. Mr. Putin’s figure was, Mr. Navalny said, “a lie of an absolutely absurd scale.” It is not only one-tenth of the spending that has been widely reported, but it is also less than the $12 billion Mr. Putin pledged in 2007 to spend on the games when he personally appealed to the International Olympic Committee to choose Sochi as the host. That Russia’s first Winter Olympics would be an expensive undertaking has been a given since the government first broke ground on the projects in and around Sochi, which Mr. Putin called “the biggest building site on the planet.” For the first time, though, the cost issue appears to have become politically sensitive for the Kremlin. Advertisement Officials here once boasted of Russia’s ability to spend so lavishly, but of late they have embraced Mr. Putin’s more frugal tone, and have sought to defend the outlays by redefining what constitutes spending on the Olympics. They have argued that the billions poured into projects like the huge new power plant on the edge of the Olympic Village or the adjacent new railroad station should not be counted as Olympic expenditures, but rather as part of a broader economic stimulus project to rebuild the sea-meets-the-mountains resort on the Black Sea. “It’s just senseless to take the cost of everything built in Sochi — and the building of roads in Sochi — and ascribe it to the Games,” Aleksandr D. Zhukov, the deputy speaker of the lower house of Parliament and the chairman of the Russian Olympic Committee, said in an interview. “Were you in Beijing for the Games? They made boulevards twice as wide — built new roads there. What did that have to do with the Olympics?” KAZAKH. Volgograd UKRAINE Volga River RUSSIA Caspian Sea Sochi Black Sea GEORGIA AZER. ARMENIA 100 Miles To critics like Mr. Navalny, however, Sochi has turned into an unaffordable personal vanity project, intended to cement Mr. Putin’s legacy as the driving force of the country’s restoration after the collapse of the Soviet Union more than two decades ago. Advertisement “It actually seems like some small, spiteful pharaoh is building himself the greatest pyramid in the world,” Mr. Navalny said in his organization’s new headquarters in southeastern Moscow, which hummed late into the evening last week with people still crunching the numbers for the report. “There’s no other way to explain the gigantomania,” he said. According to the group’s calculations, Russia has spent more than 1.5 trillion rubles on the Olympics, which at today’s suddenly declining exchange rate would amount to at least $48 billion — more than China spent for the far larger Summer Olympics in 2008. While that figure is roughly comparable with a $50 billion estimate that Russian officials here disclosed a year ago and then quickly disavowed, the group’s calculations are based on detailed accounting of project costs that have remained largely opaque, perhaps on purpose. The website — in Russian and English — documents thousands of expenses salted through Russian federal budgets since the country first applied to host the games. Mr. Navalny said the work was made difficult by the way spending was scattered in myriad accounts. “There is no single source for the figures,” he said. “Every project requires its own investigation.” Mr. Navalny challenged the Kremlin’s assertions that much of the spending was private, not government. When Mr. Putin said that less than half of the figure he cited was federal money, he sidestepped the fact that many of the largest “private” expenditures were made by companies that are state-owned, like Russian Railways, the state bank and Gazprom, Mr. Navalny said. According to his organization’s analysis, less than 4 percent of the overall spending came from truly private companies. Advertisement Mikhail G. Delyagin, an economist in Moscow, said in an interview that as a rule, the Olympic Games rarely prove to be the engines of economic revival that officials claim. “The situation in Sochi is indeed positive, because there wasn’t even a normal sewer system there,” he said, “but one shouldn’t expect that these resorts will recoup the cost.” Mr. Navalny argued that beyond the most visible projects, like the stadiums and arenas, the government also spent heavily on buildings that had nothing to do with the Olympics or even with future tourism in Sochi. They include new residences for Mr. Putin, a church at the Olympic Village, and resorts for various agencies like the prosecutor’s office and the Federal Security Service, all classified in the annual budgets as Olympic projects. “Under the guise of the Olympics, they made themselves a super-magnificent resort for those who have ended up on the ‘Magnitsky List’ and cannot leave the country,” he said, referring to American sanctions that bar travel and investments abroad for certain Russian officials accused of human-rights abuses. The Sochi Olympics are seen as such a national priority — and a personal one for Mr. Putin — that there has been little official debate about the preparations and the costs. The Parliament has not held hearings. The state auditing chamber has compiled a report on spending, but it has not disclosed its findings and would not do so until after the Games, a spokesman said. What criticism there has been of the spending has come from a handful of news organizations and bloggers. Online critics in particular have enthusiastically questioned the building projects and the chronic delays, delved into accusations of cronyism and corruption and mocked absurdities they uncovered. Recently, there was the matter of the men’s room that was observed and photographed by Steve Rosenberg, a BBC journalist, during a visit to the Laura Cross-Country Ski and Biathlon Center in the mountains above Sochi. In a single, sleekly tiled bathroom stall were not one but two toilets, side by side. The image seemed a pas de deux of either poor design and Olympian waste that, for a fleeting moment at least, became a symbol of the entire endeavor. Boris E. Nemtsov, another prominent opposition leader who has written extensively about corruption in the Olympic project, said the Kremlin wanted to now revise Sochi’s budget because of fear of popular outrage and even prosecution, though the latter seems unlikely. “So they shamelessly underestimate the expenses so that people don’t become indignant, and instead say that all we have is like in Canada,” he wrote this week on the website of the independent radio station Ekho Moskvy. Andrey Miroshnichenko, an independent media analyst, questioned whether Mr. Navalny’s report would at last spur a meaningful political debate, and noted that excessive spending and corruption are taken for granted in Russia. “Everyone knows how business is done here,” he said. “Expensiveness is considered a way to redistribute the state’s wealth.” Dmitri A. Medvedev, the former president and now prime minister, acknowledged in an interview with CNN on Wednesday that the larger figure of nearly $50 billion was accurate, but he disputed accusations of excessive waste or corruption. “There is no data on whether the corruption related to the Olympics,” he explained, “is much higher than the average level of corruption in the country.” An earlier version of the picture caption atop this article misspelled the name of the cross-country ski and biathlon center. It is the Laura ski center, not Lauea. Andrew Roth contributed reporting. A version of this article appears in print on January 27, 2014, on page A4 of the New York edition with the headline: Russians Debate Sticker Price of Sochi Games. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Science   Me Versus the Scale Sign Up for the Running Email. Advertisement The scale and I have reached détente. That is: I leave it alone, and it affords me the same courtesy. I rarely step on it, and we’re both better off. I have earned the right of refusal. As someone who weighed herself almost daily between the ages of 10 and 25, who spent six years at fat camps and traveled around the Middle East with a scale buried in the pit of her backpack (I know, I know…), I’ve done my time. I won’t even weigh myself at the doctor’s office. Nothing good can come from the knowledge that I’m three pounds lighter, or two pounds heavier. “People are obsessed with it — they go crazy over a tenth of a pound,” said Jim White, a registered dietitian nutritionist and a spokesman for the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. “I’ve had clients who are losing major inches and body fat and looking and feeling great, but if the scale doesn’t budge they get defeated. The number defines them.” I had pretty much been blessedly scale-free until a few months ago, when I signed up for a month-long, twice-weekly fitness class. Shedding pounds was not my goal; I just wanted a good, hard workout. The instructor insisted on taking our “before” and “after” measurements, including our weight and body fat percentages. I balked, but after the teacher promised “I won’t tell you what it is,” I held my breath and shuffled onto the scale as if to the guillotine. I was curious, of course, but I squeezed my eyes shut and didn’t peek. And that was the end of that — until a week later, when I opened a group email from her and found a list of the entire class’s names, along with our weights and measurements. A ball of rubber bands wove its way from my stomach and lodged in my throat. “Really?” I thought. It seemed a major violation. So many of us can recite the intimate details of our friends’ sex lives, their pharmacological habits, their rents. But question their weights and their mouths clamp shut. Not even the N.S.A. knows that. “How often do we ask someone what they weigh? Unless you really know them well, you don’t,” said Allan Geliebter, a senior researcher at The New York Obesity Nutrition Research Center at St. Luke’s-Roosevelt Hospital Center. “The last thing you tell someone is that they gained a lot of weight.” After stewing about it, I realized that I didn’t really care if 15 strangers knew my weight. I just didn’t want to know — especially since it was about five pounds higher than I would have liked. It haunted me. The teacher apologized. But, she said, the weight was “just a number.” “The real thing you should worry about is body fat.” Indeed, most experts agree that body fat percentage is a better indicator of health than overall weight, with obesity often defined as greater than 25 percent body fat in men and 35 percent in women. Belly, or visceral, fat can be more harmful than the subcutaneous fat found directly under the skin and stored in the thighs and derriere — neither of which a traditional scale gauges. “Weight in itself is an imperfect measurement of health,” said Dr. Philip Schauer, director of the Cleveland Clinic Bariatric and Metabolic Institute. “Someone who is 30 pounds overweight and has mainly a pear shape can be pretty healthy. You can be an apple shape and 30 pounds overweight and have diabetes.” A quicker and more accurate assessment, he said, is measuring waist circumference — more than 35 inches for women or more than 40 inches for men is problematic — or using calipers to determine the amount of fat under the skin. Those measurements tend to be more reliable than body mass index, or B.M.I., which doesn’t distinguish between fatty and lean tissue or take body shape into consideration. So if the scale is such a flawed measure, why is it still so widely used? “It can be an effective tool,” said Jennifer Linde, an associate professor of epidemiology at the University of Minnesota Twin Cities, in Minneapolis. “It gives you feedback every day, and you can coach people to look at the number as a neutral thing. It doesn’t have to be a value judgment.” Presuming it’s possible to look at it as a “neutral” thing, some studies have shown that the more frequently you weigh yourself the better off you are, at least in terms of weight control. A six-month study of overweight and obese adults who were looking to lose weight, published last September in Obesity, confirmed that sentiment. During the study, which included a mobile scale for daily weighing, a web-based weight loss graph and weekly feedback from researchers, participants who weighed themselves daily lost 13 pounds on average. Those in the other group, who weighed themselves weekly, lost nothing. David A. Levitsky, a professor of nutrition and psychology at Cornell University who has conducted studies on the efficacy of daily weighing since 1992, believes that daily self-weighing is necessary to help prevent weight gain. “I don’t see any way that we are going to tax fats or tax soda or have people exercise more in order to control their weight,” he said. “There’s enough data to show that doesn’t work. But if you step on that scale first thing in the morning, that’s protective of those subtle cues in our environment that make us eat a little more than we expend.” The best news, at least for us scale avoiders, is that most medical professionals agree that self-monitoring — whether it is counting calories, writing down how much one eats or weighing oneself regularly — is the greatest predictor of success. Our task is to choose the thing that makes us the least crazy, and stick with it. And that is why, in the end, I skipped getting weighed at my last exercise class. There was no reason to. I felt stronger, my clothes fit better, and that was enough for me. Abby Ellin is the author of “Teenage Waistland: A Former Fat-Camper Weighs in on Living Large, Losing Weight, And How Parents Can (And Can’t) Help.” A version of this article appears in print on 01/28/2014, on page D4 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Me Versus the Scale. Your health questions answered by Times journalists and experts. Your Questions | All » Get Well's Running email for practical tips, expert advice, exclusive content and a bit of motivation delivered to your inbox every week to help you on your running journey. Coming soon. How much do you know about the amazing things that go on in your gut? Take our quiz to find out about the creepy, crawly critters living in your home. What surface is the most friendly to the flu virus? Where’s the best place to stand when you’re talking to a sick person? How does sleep affect health, relationships and well-being? The “Reading the Mind in the Eyes Test” measures ability to understand others’ emotional states. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   30 Seconds With Boomer Esiason. Advertisement Advertisement By JOE BRESCIAJAN. 27, 2014 After an all-American career at Maryland, Boomer Esiason played 14 seasons in the N.F.L. as a quarterback for the Cincinnati Bengals, the Jets and the Arizona Cardinals. He was selected to the Pro Bowl four times and he was named the league’s most valuable player in 1988. Esiason ended his career with 2,969 completions, 5,205 pass attempts, a 57 percent completion mark , 247 touchdown passes and 37,920 yards passing. In 1995, the N.F.L. honored Esiason with the Walter Payton Man of the Year Award in recognition of his excellence on the football field as well as his charitable work through the Boomer Esiason Foundation, which is dedicated to curing cystic fibrosis, and other organizations. After retiring in 1997, he became a commentator for ABC’s “Monday Night Football.” Esiason, 52, currently is a commentator for Westwood One/CBS Radio Sports’ “Monday Night Football” and is a studio analyst for “The NFL Today,” CBS’s pregame show. Along with Craig Carton, he co-hosts WFAN’s weekday morning radio show, “Boomer and Carton in the Morning.” For the next week, Esiason’s life will be full of football and funny. On Jan. 29, Esiason and Carton will M.C. the WFAN Super Comedy Jam at the Hammerstein Ballroom in Manhattan. Then on Jan. 30, Esiason will be roasted by the Friar’s Club to benefit the Boomer Esiason Foundation, the Gift of Laughter Wounded Warrior Program and The N.Y./N.J. Snowflake Youth Foundation. Advertisement Q. Why will Denver win the Super Bowl? A. Denver will win because Peyton Manning is on a mission and in order to fulfill his total mission of vindication and validation, he will finish off a most amazing season by not only winning the Super Bowl for the second time, but also adding the Super Bowl M.V.P. to his N.F.L. regular season M.V.P. Q. Why will Seattle win? A. Seattle will win because Marshawn Lynch and their defense can win in inclement weather. The whipping winds at Met Life Stadium will wreak havoc on the N.F.L.'s best ever passing offense. Advertisement Q. Who do think will win? A. Depends on the weather. If it is a calm day with minimal winds, then Denver; but if it’s a day like Tuesday (snowstorm) today, then Seattle. Q. What do you think about all the trash talking, most recently with Richard Sherman and Michael Crabtree? A. I completely understand the intense nature of the competition on the field. This has been going on for years. It’s so much more prevalent these days because of the intense social media following of the league and its players. When you combine that with the extreme overexposure from the networks in high-def camera, it’s there for all the world to see and opine on. I believe the league has sent out memos to both the referees and all coaches that continued behavior of this sort will be held accountable for via fines. The last thing the N.F.L. wants to see is what we all saw during the postgame interview conducted on Fox with Richard Sherman. It was an extremely embarrassing moment for the league, the Seahawks and Sherman himself. Q. Do you agree with the Jets giving Rex Ryan a contract extension? A. I agree 100 percent with the Jets decision to reward Rex Ryan with a contract extension albeit lukewarm. His extension is tied to incentives so that, if things go wrong next year, the Jets can fire him without significant monetary penalties. I think it’s a healthy compromise between coach and new general manager, John Idzik, to make sure this past season’s 8-8 record was not an aberration. I also believe that continuity and consistency are two main ingredients for a franchise’s long-term success. Paramount to that success is the support towards a young, up and coming quarterback. Q. Should the Jets stick with Geno Smith or draft another quarterback? A. Only internally do the Jets know if Geno has the ability to flourish in the complex world of being an N.F.L. quarterback. From the outside, Smith showed flashes that he could be the long-term solution. What was most impressive, even in the midst of some poor performances on a back-to-back basis, was that Smith was able to rebound with two strong performances in the team’s final two games. In other words, he has made it very difficult for the Jets to have 100 percent confidence that he is the long-term answer. Q. Who do you think will be let go first, Rex Ryan or Tom Coughlin? A. Let me start this by saying that I hope neither one gets let go, but since Coach Coughlin is the proud owner of two of the most improbable Super Bowl victories in history, I would think that Rex Ryan is on thinner ice. Advertisement Q. What do you think about the proposed concussion settlement that was recently rejected by a federal judge? A. Full disclosure. I was not a party to the original suit. But as a former N.F.L. player, I stand to gain from the ultimate agreement. I wondered aloud on my morning show at WFAN about whether or not the initial settlement would be enough. And, why in the world would the players agree to not holding their universities or the N.C.A.A. responsible for potential physical problems that could have occurred while playing in college? And while the total number now remains in dispute, I believe the N.F.L. and the initial plaintiffs could agree on an initial down-payment of $250 million to be made immediately to help those players that desperately need the support today. Q. How do you think the top quarterbacks in the draft - Johnny Manziel, Teddy Bridgewater, Blake Bortles and Derek Carr - will do in the N.F.L.? A. Trying to translate the college game to the pro game with regard to young quarterbacks is one of the most difficult decisions to be made. While every quarterback has the physical measurables needed to succeed, it is the intangibles, such as dealing with adversity and criticism, that separate the successful ones from the failures. Each one of these young men will be given the opportunity of a lifetime, based solely on their performance in college. And then it is up to them to decide if they want to become Peyton Manning or end up like Ryan Leaf. Q. What do you think about the recent group of head coaches hired? A. Unfortunately, the N.F.L. is a world of retreads and dysfunction. So much depends on whether or not the new coach has a quarterback to build around. And if they can’t find that guy it really doesn’t matter what their background is. At least last year, the Philadelphia Eagles thought outside the box with the hiring of Chip Kelly. At this moment, I see more Andy Reid-type situations in the N.F.L. as opposed to what the Eagles did, which ultimately means more of the same. Q. You’re going to be roasted by the Friar’s Club on Jan. 30 to benefit the Boomer Esiason Foundation and the Gift of Laughter Wounded Warrior Program. Who on the dais do you think will give you the harshest treatment? A. I say C.C. (Carton), Sam Wyche, Bill Cowher and Jay Mohr. One thing they have in common, there’s no way that they would’ve been a success without me. Q. Tell me something nobody knows about Carton, your funny and feisty WFAN partner? A. Because Craig is so entertaining and so smart and knows how to get under the skin of sports fans, many people don’t realize how great of a father he is. I could easily nominate C.C. for Father of the Year, every year since the day I met him. Go to Home Page »
Travel   Budget-Friendly and (Almost) Dracula-Free Transylvania. Advertisement Advertisement Seth Kugel FRUGAL TRAVELER JAN. 27, 2014 “Our ways are not your ways, and there shall be to you many strange things,” said a certain sharp-fanged count to his English visitor, freshly arrived by train to Transylvania. In some sense, things haven’t changed much since Bram Stoker published those words in 1897. I arrived by train myself in mid-January and I, too, found strange things: A picture-perfect medieval town square packed not with tourists but primary school students. “Bagel” shops that don’t sell bagels. An Eastern Orthodox priest denouncing guitar lessons and raising bees. Look, I fully intended to experience and write about Transylvania with no mention of vampires or anything described in novel by an Irishman who had never visited the region. I even requested that Twitter followers tracking my travels abstain from Dracula-related remarks. That’s because the real place — now a large swath of central and western Romania and almost certainly the place on earth most commonly mistaken for fictional — is mountainous and beautiful, its ancient towns lively and well preserved, its ethnic and political history rich and complex. In other words, a place well worth discovering in its own right, not digressing to mentions of scary monsters. Advertisement That worked until I was taking money from an A.T.M. in the scrupulously well-preserved medieval center of Sighisoara. Glancing up, I saw the sign: “Banca Transilvania” — and realized I was down the block from a medieval clock tower with torture chamber beneath; across the street was the house where Vlad the Impaler, a.k.a. Draculae, is said to have been born in 1431. A chill went down my spine. In my head, well trained since “Sesame Street” and “Scooby Doo” days in how vampires operate, organ music played, and lightning crackled. I had come to Transylvania in the winter knowing that I would be sacrificing the mountain hikes and farm stays popular among summer visitors — but hoping to find cheaper prices, snow-dusted castles and perhaps a day of skiing. And soul-satisfying food: If there was ever a dish made for post-slope replenishment, it’s Romanian ciorba de burta, the cream-based tripe soup that is rich, ubiquitous and cheap. Alas, there had been no snow for a month, which meant no skiing, no fairy-tale dusting of ancient roofs. Still, having medieval towns and villages of Transylvania to yourself has its advantages. In Brasov, the 250,000-person city where I spent a day, that meant being the lone person gawking at the 16th-century Black Church, framing photographs through old city gates, and wondering at how just about every building in town is marked “Monument Istoric”. Still, some were more obviously Istoric than others. Wandering narrow side streets I fell for a tiny 1837 home with an intricately carved wooden door and faux Corinthian columns bordering the windows; in front of it was a Romanian-made Dacia car propped up half on the sidewalk to allow traffic to pass. The brisk winter temperatures made me more appreciative of bakeries selling warm-from-the-oven breads. In Brasov, I stopped at a shop called Bagel Magic, which in fact serves warm covrigi, which are like bagels Photoshopped like a celebrity for a cover photo — from pudgy and irregular to slender yet curvaceous (without, thankfully, airbrushing out the poppy seeds). Mine cost 1.5 lei, or 45 cents at 3.25 lei to the dollar. In Sighisoara, young and old lined up in the rain to pay one leu for truly piping-hot covrigi at the sales window of Gigi. Brasov is the traditional home base for visits to two castles in the region: Bran and Peles. They could not be more different. Bran Castle is probably the most touristy spot in Transylvania thanks to its completely dubious connections with both the fictional and historic Dracula. But with summer hordes replaced by a handful of Romanian tourists and a school field trip, I quite enjoyed the visit (the 25-lei admission price didn’t hurt). Perched almost precariously on the side of a hill, the castle — which once served as a toll collector’s headquarters and a defense post against Ottoman aggressors — truly seems like the sort of place a vampire might have lived. In fact, I found out, the home was last used as a residence by the Romanian royal family before it was seized by the Communist government, and it is decorated largely from that period. (Although on the higher levels, things did get a tiny bit creepy — up there, where wind swirled and whistled outside, I came upon some restrained displays about Dracula.) Peles Castle is a wholly different and entirely more mind-boggling experience. Built by King Carol I as a summer residence beginning in 1873, its lavish halls are filled with endlessly ornate detail, like a Versailles for the late 19th century: Carol seems to have spared no expense in the Arab and Turkish-themed rooms; his astoundingly vast European arms collection — swords, battle axes, guns — is displayed in all its excess in one hall, along with a full-on man and horse armor display that will leave no medieval fantasist unhappy. In an adjoining room is his collection of Ottoman and Persian arms, so flowery and ornate by comparison that they look runway-ready for Constantinople Fashion Week. Still, Sighisoara, under three hours from Brasov by train (and free for me, as it was the first leg of my already-purchased return trip to Budapest), was the highlight. I’m very picky about medieval walled towns, having skewered places from Dubrovnik, Croatia, to Èze, France, as little more than polished museum pieces. But unlike those places (and true to what guidebooks said), Sighisoara is truly living medieval town, its 16th- through 18th-century homes largely still inhabited. When I stopped into a place called the Medieval Cafe for a 5-lei warm winter drink made of black currants, I could hear children playing in the neighboring schoolyard; I would later see the same kids rushing out of school in the square in front of the clock tower, which in many other places would be strictly tourist territory. Advertisement The city walls are guarded over by eclectic watchtowers, each maintained by (and named for) a different guild of historic craftsmen — tailors, tanners, cobblers, furriers, rope makers. But the clock tower is the true fairy-tale attraction. It was first built in the 13th and 14th centuries; a Baroque roof was added in the 17th century, along with its most charming element, seven figurines based on Greek and Roman gods that rotate each day of the week. From the belvedere at the top (which you reach through the creaky-floored museum, 12 lei) you get a remarkable 360-degree view of the city; astonishingly, I could spot barely a single building, even in the more modern lower city, that appeared to have been built in the 20th or 21st century. Eager to see the much-touted Carpathian villages, I rented a car (I paid in euros, the equivalent of $33 a day) and drove out to the rural villages, many of which feature impressive fortified Saxon churches. That Saxon population, which once dominated many of the villages, has since largely evacuated to Germany, replaced by Romanians, Hungarians and Roma, the three largest ethnic groups in Transylvania today. (For those wondering, the last Romanian census counted zero vampires, though admittedly was largely taken in the daylight.) After passing through Biertan, whose church was closed and residents not very chatty, I found a warmer reception a mile or so away in Copsa Mare. In the local magazin mixt — the cool Romanian term for convenience store — a woman used hand gestures to explain that I should knock at the house next to the church; there, an adolescent boy fetched the key and led me through its battered arched doorway. The old church wasn’t anything special, although the experience of getting into it had been. So I left a donation in the bowl and took off to wander the town. It was a village of dirt roads and modest, mostly Saxon-style houses; I noticed nothing out of the ordinary except several young girls carrying around guitars. When a young man pulling buckets of water from a well spoke to me in near perfect English, I asked him about the guitars. “There’s a lady in the town who is teaching the children,” he said. “Great!” I said. He did not agree. He was the town’s Orthodox priest, and the guitar lessons, he said, were an effort to recruit families to the Pentecostal church in town. He introduced himself as John (his name is actually Ioan Bico) and seemed delighted to entertain me for the next few hours. He may have been a priest, but he wielded a sharp tongue recounting an opinionated chapter of the town’s recent ethnic history. To summarize: the Saxons used to refuse to marry Romanians, yet when they moved to Germany, the men found themselves discriminated against and returned to marry not only Romanians but even the more-maligned Roma. (He called them Gypsies, and they were not spared maligning from him either.) Advertisement He eventually invited me over for a beer — nonalcoholic for me, he insisted, since I was driving — and to see the icons he paints and sells to supplement his meager pay. He was also a beekeeper, and I happily bought a jar of honey for 20 lei. Conversation ranged from Hollywood to the Internet to birth control and abortion. (He did not think highly of any of the four.) I had not eaten since breakfast, so I headed back to Sighisoara in search of a reasonably priced meal. Finding the pub-like Cafe Martini near the town center, I ordered a feast as most customers just drank beer and listened to a soundtrack lost in the ‘80s (Springsteen, Tina Turner, Asia). I had that tripe soup called ciorba de burta, mititei (grilled ground meat patties), cascaval pane (breaded, fried cheese), and the great Romanian dessert of papanasi (hot doughnuts, topped with sour cream and currant jam) — and returned, stuffed, to my guesthouse. I was staying at Casa Soare, a family-run pension in the lower town, a 10-minute walk down from the citadel, where I had scored a winter discount at 80 lei a night — about 20 percent off the Booking.com price — by calling in advance. It was a nice place and worth the modest expense, but I had two lodging regrets. The first — that I had not stayed in a village or on a farm — was unavoidable: Most rural guesthouses were closed for the winter. But I realized I had missed an opportunity when I picked up my rental car at Casa Baroca, just down the block from the Vlad Dracul house. I got a tour of the place, and it was amazing. Entering through the 300 year-old front door, I found rooms under vaulted ceilings decorated with traditional furniture, antique wood stoves, old wood floors. And winter prices were only slightly more than what I was paying: 100 lei, down from 140 in summer. Advertisement Still, perhaps I was better off at my place. Staying at Casa Baroca, I had learned, would be in violation of a town ordinance forbidding foreigners to lodge in the citadel. Admittedly, the law was written around 1515 and is probably not still in effect, but in a city with a torture chamber, you can’t be too careful. For more photos from Transylvania, go to Seth Kugel’s public Facebook page or follow him on Instagram, @sethkugel. See More » Go to Home Page »
Business   Wheelies: The Detroit Rising Edition. Advertisement Advertisement By BENJAMIN PRESTONJAN. 28, 2014 A roundup of motoring news from the web: ■ This year’s Detroit auto show reported its highest attendance in more than 10 years. A total of 803,451 people visited the 2014 show — a significant one for General Motors, which took both the North American car and truck of the year awards. Attendance has not been that high since 838,066 people came to the show in 2003. (Jalopnik) ■ In its efforts to get people used to the idea that its new F-150 pickup trucks will be built with aluminum bodies, Ford told its dealers Sunday that the new trucks will actually be cheaper and easier to repair than the outgoing model. Ford said that the aluminum bodies are set up in a modular design — as opposed to the welded design of the old steel trucks — that simplifies repairs by making them less time-consuming. (Reuters) ■ In other F-150-related news, Ford says that the new 2.7-liter V6 the automaker introduced with the new pickup has a unique two-piece engine block. Most engines are either all aluminum or all cast iron, but Ford’s new engine has an upper part — housing the cylinder bores — made from compacted graphite iron and a lower half made from aluminum. The unusual construction allowed Ford to make the engine very small; it is only 18 inches long from front to back. (Automotive News, subscription required) ■ BMW says that its all-electric i3 will arrive in American showrooms in May, priced similarly to the 3 Series. Ludwig Willisch, who heads BMW North America, said that the United States would be the company’s largest market for the i Series electric cars, adding that demand for the i3 will most likely outstrip supply in the first year of production. (Bloomberg) Advertisement ■ Volvo and Zhejiang Geely Holding Group, of which Volvo is a subsidiary, will jointly develop a small car to compete with the Ford Fiesta, Honda Fit, Toyota Yaris and Volkswagen Polo, among others. Engineering work is to be done at a research and development center in Sweden, and Hakan Samuelsson, chief executive of Volvo, told The Wall Street Journal that the car would be designed to compete in Western markets in a few years. (Automotive News, subscription required) ■ After many races lost to teams with superior equipment, Scuderia Ferrari unveiled its new Formula One racecar on its website over the weekend. The F14 T drops last season’s 2.4-liter V8 in favor of a new turbocharged 1.6-liter V6 and features a lower nose cone and an improved energy recovery system. (CNN) ■ Ralph Marano, a noted Packard collector, is scheduled to take 10 one-of-a-kind Packards this year to the Amelia Island Concours d'Élégance. The show’s organizers agreed to create a class entirely for Mr. Marano’s unique collection of vehicles, which include the Vignale Packard and the Richard Arbib-designed Packard Pan America. (Hemmings Daily) ■ Nissan announced this week its plan to use a 400-horsepower turbocharged 1.5-liter 3-cylinder engine that weighed only 88 pounds in its delta-shaped Le Mans racecar. Nissan claims the engine has a power-to-weight ratio of 10 horsepower per kilogram, which the automaker says is more potent than Formula One’s new 1.6-liter engines. (Automobile Magazine) Go to Home Page »
Books   The Read Around: Jennifer Senior. In “All Joy and No Fun,” Jennifer Senior looks at the finding that children do not improve their parents’ happiness.                    
Business   The Princess Problem. Advertisement This week’s puzzle was suggested by Dave Penneys, a mathematics postdoctoral fellow at the University of Toronto. The Princess Problem A princess lives in a row of seventeen adjacent rooms, each connected by a door to each room next to it. Each room also has a door to the outside. The princess enjoys the rooms but never stays in the same room two days in a row: at the end of each day she moves from the room she occupied to one of the rooms next to it (she chooses randomly). On the first of June a prince arrives from a faraway kingdom to woo the princess. The princess’s guardian explains the habits of the princess and the rules he must follow: Each day he may knock on a single outside door. If the princess is behind it she will open it and meet the prince. If not, the prince gets another chance the next day. Unfortunately the prince must return to his kingdom on July 1. Can he devise a strategy to make sure he meets the princess before then? Give it a try with Gary Hewitt’s remarkable Chase the Princess Gizmo:  That’s it for this week’s challenge. We also have a special update this week: Gary Hewitt’s ingenious Enhancer has been redesigned to support The Times’ new comment presentation. Give it a try by clicking enhance once the number of comments is visible above – it should do everything else automatically. If things look out of order, try clicking the purple “enhance” box. Mr. Hewitt would like to know which features are important to his fellow Numberplayers. Email him at numberplay@garyhewitt.net if you have any feedback about the Enhancer. Finally, send your favorite royal puzzle to gary.antonick@NYTimes.com. Solution Check reader comments on Friday for Dave Penneys’ solution and commentary on the week’s discussion.  Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… David Poole has something up his sleeve.Read more… Jacob Stulberg is all wet. Don’t tell him I said that.Read more… The return of John Westwig.Read more… Are you as smart as a fifth-grader? See if you can solve these algebra challenges without using algebra.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   Russians Debate Sticker Price of Sochi Games. Advertisement Advertisement By STEVEN LEE MYERSJAN. 27, 2014 MOSCOW — With less than two weeks to go before the opening of the Winter Olympics in Sochi, the country is finally having a debate — of a sort — over the cost of the event, celebrated as Russia’s triumphal moment on the international stage, yet derided as a bacchanalia of waste and corruption. President Vladimir V. Putin stoked the debate when he recently told a group of television anchors that Russia had spent only 214 billion rubles, or roughly $7 billion, to erect the sporting venues for the games. And less than half of that, he maintained, was government spending. Others, though, say those figures are grossly understated. An organization led by Aleksei A. Navalny, the anticorruption blogger who has become one of the Kremlin’s most prominent critics, has been working for two months to compile a detailed chronicle of Russia’s Olympic spending, culling figures from annual budgets and corporate reports since 2006. The goal is to document the true cost of the Winter Games in an economy that has slowed considerably, and to focus attention on a debate that has occurred so far only on the fringes of public discourse. The organization, the Foundation for the Fight Against Corruption, is to publish the result of its work on Monday on an interactive website. Mr. Putin’s figure was, Mr. Navalny said, “a lie of an absolutely absurd scale.” It is not only one-tenth of the spending that has been widely reported, but it is also less than the $12 billion Mr. Putin pledged in 2007 to spend on the games when he personally appealed to the International Olympic Committee to choose Sochi as the host. That Russia’s first Winter Olympics would be an expensive undertaking has been a given since the government first broke ground on the projects in and around Sochi, which Mr. Putin called “the biggest building site on the planet.” For the first time, though, the cost issue appears to have become politically sensitive for the Kremlin. Advertisement Officials here once boasted of Russia’s ability to spend so lavishly, but of late they have embraced Mr. Putin’s more frugal tone, and have sought to defend the outlays by redefining what constitutes spending on the Olympics. They have argued that the billions poured into projects like the huge new power plant on the edge of the Olympic Village or the adjacent new railroad station should not be counted as Olympic expenditures, but rather as part of a broader economic stimulus project to rebuild the sea-meets-the-mountains resort on the Black Sea. “It’s just senseless to take the cost of everything built in Sochi — and the building of roads in Sochi — and ascribe it to the Games,” Aleksandr D. Zhukov, the deputy speaker of the lower house of Parliament and the chairman of the Russian Olympic Committee, said in an interview. “Were you in Beijing for the Games? They made boulevards twice as wide — built new roads there. What did that have to do with the Olympics?” KAZAKH. Volgograd UKRAINE Volga River RUSSIA Caspian Sea Sochi Black Sea GEORGIA AZER. ARMENIA 100 Miles To critics like Mr. Navalny, however, Sochi has turned into an unaffordable personal vanity project, intended to cement Mr. Putin’s legacy as the driving force of the country’s restoration after the collapse of the Soviet Union more than two decades ago. Advertisement “It actually seems like some small, spiteful pharaoh is building himself the greatest pyramid in the world,” Mr. Navalny said in his organization’s new headquarters in southeastern Moscow, which hummed late into the evening last week with people still crunching the numbers for the report. “There’s no other way to explain the gigantomania,” he said. According to the group’s calculations, Russia has spent more than 1.5 trillion rubles on the Olympics, which at today’s suddenly declining exchange rate would amount to at least $48 billion — more than China spent for the far larger Summer Olympics in 2008. While that figure is roughly comparable with a $50 billion estimate that Russian officials here disclosed a year ago and then quickly disavowed, the group’s calculations are based on detailed accounting of project costs that have remained largely opaque, perhaps on purpose. The website — in Russian and English — documents thousands of expenses salted through Russian federal budgets since the country first applied to host the games. Mr. Navalny said the work was made difficult by the way spending was scattered in myriad accounts. “There is no single source for the figures,” he said. “Every project requires its own investigation.” Mr. Navalny challenged the Kremlin’s assertions that much of the spending was private, not government. When Mr. Putin said that less than half of the figure he cited was federal money, he sidestepped the fact that many of the largest “private” expenditures were made by companies that are state-owned, like Russian Railways, the state bank and Gazprom, Mr. Navalny said. According to his organization’s analysis, less than 4 percent of the overall spending came from truly private companies. Advertisement Mikhail G. Delyagin, an economist in Moscow, said in an interview that as a rule, the Olympic Games rarely prove to be the engines of economic revival that officials claim. “The situation in Sochi is indeed positive, because there wasn’t even a normal sewer system there,” he said, “but one shouldn’t expect that these resorts will recoup the cost.” Mr. Navalny argued that beyond the most visible projects, like the stadiums and arenas, the government also spent heavily on buildings that had nothing to do with the Olympics or even with future tourism in Sochi. They include new residences for Mr. Putin, a church at the Olympic Village, and resorts for various agencies like the prosecutor’s office and the Federal Security Service, all classified in the annual budgets as Olympic projects. “Under the guise of the Olympics, they made themselves a super-magnificent resort for those who have ended up on the ‘Magnitsky List’ and cannot leave the country,” he said, referring to American sanctions that bar travel and investments abroad for certain Russian officials accused of human-rights abuses. The Sochi Olympics are seen as such a national priority — and a personal one for Mr. Putin — that there has been little official debate about the preparations and the costs. The Parliament has not held hearings. The state auditing chamber has compiled a report on spending, but it has not disclosed its findings and would not do so until after the Games, a spokesman said. What criticism there has been of the spending has come from a handful of news organizations and bloggers. Online critics in particular have enthusiastically questioned the building projects and the chronic delays, delved into accusations of cronyism and corruption and mocked absurdities they uncovered. Recently, there was the matter of the men’s room that was observed and photographed by Steve Rosenberg, a BBC journalist, during a visit to the Laura Cross-Country Ski and Biathlon Center in the mountains above Sochi. In a single, sleekly tiled bathroom stall were not one but two toilets, side by side. The image seemed a pas de deux of either poor design and Olympian waste that, for a fleeting moment at least, became a symbol of the entire endeavor. Boris E. Nemtsov, another prominent opposition leader who has written extensively about corruption in the Olympic project, said the Kremlin wanted to now revise Sochi’s budget because of fear of popular outrage and even prosecution, though the latter seems unlikely. “So they shamelessly underestimate the expenses so that people don’t become indignant, and instead say that all we have is like in Canada,” he wrote this week on the website of the independent radio station Ekho Moskvy. Andrey Miroshnichenko, an independent media analyst, questioned whether Mr. Navalny’s report would at last spur a meaningful political debate, and noted that excessive spending and corruption are taken for granted in Russia. “Everyone knows how business is done here,” he said. “Expensiveness is considered a way to redistribute the state’s wealth.” Dmitri A. Medvedev, the former president and now prime minister, acknowledged in an interview with CNN on Wednesday that the larger figure of nearly $50 billion was accurate, but he disputed accusations of excessive waste or corruption. “There is no data on whether the corruption related to the Olympics,” he explained, “is much higher than the average level of corruption in the country.” An earlier version of the picture caption atop this article misspelled the name of the cross-country ski and biathlon center. It is the Laura ski center, not Lauea. Andrew Roth contributed reporting. A version of this article appears in print on January 27, 2014, on page A4 of the New York edition with the headline: Russians Debate Sticker Price of Sochi Games. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Science   Me Versus the Scale Sign Up for the Running Email. Advertisement The scale and I have reached détente. That is: I leave it alone, and it affords me the same courtesy. I rarely step on it, and we’re both better off. I have earned the right of refusal. As someone who weighed herself almost daily between the ages of 10 and 25, who spent six years at fat camps and traveled around the Middle East with a scale buried in the pit of her backpack (I know, I know…), I’ve done my time. I won’t even weigh myself at the doctor’s office. Nothing good can come from the knowledge that I’m three pounds lighter, or two pounds heavier. “People are obsessed with it — they go crazy over a tenth of a pound,” said Jim White, a registered dietitian nutritionist and a spokesman for the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. “I’ve had clients who are losing major inches and body fat and looking and feeling great, but if the scale doesn’t budge they get defeated. The number defines them.” I had pretty much been blessedly scale-free until a few months ago, when I signed up for a month-long, twice-weekly fitness class. Shedding pounds was not my goal; I just wanted a good, hard workout. The instructor insisted on taking our “before” and “after” measurements, including our weight and body fat percentages. I balked, but after the teacher promised “I won’t tell you what it is,” I held my breath and shuffled onto the scale as if to the guillotine. I was curious, of course, but I squeezed my eyes shut and didn’t peek. And that was the end of that — until a week later, when I opened a group email from her and found a list of the entire class’s names, along with our weights and measurements. A ball of rubber bands wove its way from my stomach and lodged in my throat. “Really?” I thought. It seemed a major violation. So many of us can recite the intimate details of our friends’ sex lives, their pharmacological habits, their rents. But question their weights and their mouths clamp shut. Not even the N.S.A. knows that. “How often do we ask someone what they weigh? Unless you really know them well, you don’t,” said Allan Geliebter, a senior researcher at The New York Obesity Nutrition Research Center at St. Luke’s-Roosevelt Hospital Center. “The last thing you tell someone is that they gained a lot of weight.” After stewing about it, I realized that I didn’t really care if 15 strangers knew my weight. I just didn’t want to know — especially since it was about five pounds higher than I would have liked. It haunted me. The teacher apologized. But, she said, the weight was “just a number.” “The real thing you should worry about is body fat.” Indeed, most experts agree that body fat percentage is a better indicator of health than overall weight, with obesity often defined as greater than 25 percent body fat in men and 35 percent in women. Belly, or visceral, fat can be more harmful than the subcutaneous fat found directly under the skin and stored in the thighs and derriere — neither of which a traditional scale gauges. “Weight in itself is an imperfect measurement of health,” said Dr. Philip Schauer, director of the Cleveland Clinic Bariatric and Metabolic Institute. “Someone who is 30 pounds overweight and has mainly a pear shape can be pretty healthy. You can be an apple shape and 30 pounds overweight and have diabetes.” A quicker and more accurate assessment, he said, is measuring waist circumference — more than 35 inches for women or more than 40 inches for men is problematic — or using calipers to determine the amount of fat under the skin. Those measurements tend to be more reliable than body mass index, or B.M.I., which doesn’t distinguish between fatty and lean tissue or take body shape into consideration. So if the scale is such a flawed measure, why is it still so widely used? “It can be an effective tool,” said Jennifer Linde, an associate professor of epidemiology at the University of Minnesota Twin Cities, in Minneapolis. “It gives you feedback every day, and you can coach people to look at the number as a neutral thing. It doesn’t have to be a value judgment.” Presuming it’s possible to look at it as a “neutral” thing, some studies have shown that the more frequently you weigh yourself the better off you are, at least in terms of weight control. A six-month study of overweight and obese adults who were looking to lose weight, published last September in Obesity, confirmed that sentiment. During the study, which included a mobile scale for daily weighing, a web-based weight loss graph and weekly feedback from researchers, participants who weighed themselves daily lost 13 pounds on average. Those in the other group, who weighed themselves weekly, lost nothing. David A. Levitsky, a professor of nutrition and psychology at Cornell University who has conducted studies on the efficacy of daily weighing since 1992, believes that daily self-weighing is necessary to help prevent weight gain. “I don’t see any way that we are going to tax fats or tax soda or have people exercise more in order to control their weight,” he said. “There’s enough data to show that doesn’t work. But if you step on that scale first thing in the morning, that’s protective of those subtle cues in our environment that make us eat a little more than we expend.” The best news, at least for us scale avoiders, is that most medical professionals agree that self-monitoring — whether it is counting calories, writing down how much one eats or weighing oneself regularly — is the greatest predictor of success. Our task is to choose the thing that makes us the least crazy, and stick with it. And that is why, in the end, I skipped getting weighed at my last exercise class. There was no reason to. I felt stronger, my clothes fit better, and that was enough for me. Abby Ellin is the author of “Teenage Waistland: A Former Fat-Camper Weighs in on Living Large, Losing Weight, And How Parents Can (And Can’t) Help.” A version of this article appears in print on 01/28/2014, on page D4 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Me Versus the Scale. Your health questions answered by Times journalists and experts. Your Questions | All » Get Well's Running email for practical tips, expert advice, exclusive content and a bit of motivation delivered to your inbox every week to help you on your running journey. Coming soon. How much do you know about the amazing things that go on in your gut? Take our quiz to find out about the creepy, crawly critters living in your home. What surface is the most friendly to the flu virus? Where’s the best place to stand when you’re talking to a sick person? How does sleep affect health, relationships and well-being? The “Reading the Mind in the Eyes Test” measures ability to understand others’ emotional states. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   30 Seconds With Boomer Esiason. Advertisement Advertisement By JOE BRESCIAJAN. 27, 2014 After an all-American career at Maryland, Boomer Esiason played 14 seasons in the N.F.L. as a quarterback for the Cincinnati Bengals, the Jets and the Arizona Cardinals. He was selected to the Pro Bowl four times and he was named the league’s most valuable player in 1988. Esiason ended his career with 2,969 completions, 5,205 pass attempts, a 57 percent completion mark , 247 touchdown passes and 37,920 yards passing. In 1995, the N.F.L. honored Esiason with the Walter Payton Man of the Year Award in recognition of his excellence on the football field as well as his charitable work through the Boomer Esiason Foundation, which is dedicated to curing cystic fibrosis, and other organizations. After retiring in 1997, he became a commentator for ABC’s “Monday Night Football.” Esiason, 52, currently is a commentator for Westwood One/CBS Radio Sports’ “Monday Night Football” and is a studio analyst for “The NFL Today,” CBS’s pregame show. Along with Craig Carton, he co-hosts WFAN’s weekday morning radio show, “Boomer and Carton in the Morning.” For the next week, Esiason’s life will be full of football and funny. On Jan. 29, Esiason and Carton will M.C. the WFAN Super Comedy Jam at the Hammerstein Ballroom in Manhattan. Then on Jan. 30, Esiason will be roasted by the Friar’s Club to benefit the Boomer Esiason Foundation, the Gift of Laughter Wounded Warrior Program and The N.Y./N.J. Snowflake Youth Foundation. Advertisement Q. Why will Denver win the Super Bowl? A. Denver will win because Peyton Manning is on a mission and in order to fulfill his total mission of vindication and validation, he will finish off a most amazing season by not only winning the Super Bowl for the second time, but also adding the Super Bowl M.V.P. to his N.F.L. regular season M.V.P. Q. Why will Seattle win? A. Seattle will win because Marshawn Lynch and their defense can win in inclement weather. The whipping winds at Met Life Stadium will wreak havoc on the N.F.L.'s best ever passing offense. Advertisement Q. Who do think will win? A. Depends on the weather. If it is a calm day with minimal winds, then Denver; but if it’s a day like Tuesday (snowstorm) today, then Seattle. Q. What do you think about all the trash talking, most recently with Richard Sherman and Michael Crabtree? A. I completely understand the intense nature of the competition on the field. This has been going on for years. It’s so much more prevalent these days because of the intense social media following of the league and its players. When you combine that with the extreme overexposure from the networks in high-def camera, it’s there for all the world to see and opine on. I believe the league has sent out memos to both the referees and all coaches that continued behavior of this sort will be held accountable for via fines. The last thing the N.F.L. wants to see is what we all saw during the postgame interview conducted on Fox with Richard Sherman. It was an extremely embarrassing moment for the league, the Seahawks and Sherman himself. Q. Do you agree with the Jets giving Rex Ryan a contract extension? A. I agree 100 percent with the Jets decision to reward Rex Ryan with a contract extension albeit lukewarm. His extension is tied to incentives so that, if things go wrong next year, the Jets can fire him without significant monetary penalties. I think it’s a healthy compromise between coach and new general manager, John Idzik, to make sure this past season’s 8-8 record was not an aberration. I also believe that continuity and consistency are two main ingredients for a franchise’s long-term success. Paramount to that success is the support towards a young, up and coming quarterback. Q. Should the Jets stick with Geno Smith or draft another quarterback? A. Only internally do the Jets know if Geno has the ability to flourish in the complex world of being an N.F.L. quarterback. From the outside, Smith showed flashes that he could be the long-term solution. What was most impressive, even in the midst of some poor performances on a back-to-back basis, was that Smith was able to rebound with two strong performances in the team’s final two games. In other words, he has made it very difficult for the Jets to have 100 percent confidence that he is the long-term answer. Q. Who do you think will be let go first, Rex Ryan or Tom Coughlin? A. Let me start this by saying that I hope neither one gets let go, but since Coach Coughlin is the proud owner of two of the most improbable Super Bowl victories in history, I would think that Rex Ryan is on thinner ice. Advertisement Q. What do you think about the proposed concussion settlement that was recently rejected by a federal judge? A. Full disclosure. I was not a party to the original suit. But as a former N.F.L. player, I stand to gain from the ultimate agreement. I wondered aloud on my morning show at WFAN about whether or not the initial settlement would be enough. And, why in the world would the players agree to not holding their universities or the N.C.A.A. responsible for potential physical problems that could have occurred while playing in college? And while the total number now remains in dispute, I believe the N.F.L. and the initial plaintiffs could agree on an initial down-payment of $250 million to be made immediately to help those players that desperately need the support today. Q. How do you think the top quarterbacks in the draft - Johnny Manziel, Teddy Bridgewater, Blake Bortles and Derek Carr - will do in the N.F.L.? A. Trying to translate the college game to the pro game with regard to young quarterbacks is one of the most difficult decisions to be made. While every quarterback has the physical measurables needed to succeed, it is the intangibles, such as dealing with adversity and criticism, that separate the successful ones from the failures. Each one of these young men will be given the opportunity of a lifetime, based solely on their performance in college. And then it is up to them to decide if they want to become Peyton Manning or end up like Ryan Leaf. Q. What do you think about the recent group of head coaches hired? A. Unfortunately, the N.F.L. is a world of retreads and dysfunction. So much depends on whether or not the new coach has a quarterback to build around. And if they can’t find that guy it really doesn’t matter what their background is. At least last year, the Philadelphia Eagles thought outside the box with the hiring of Chip Kelly. At this moment, I see more Andy Reid-type situations in the N.F.L. as opposed to what the Eagles did, which ultimately means more of the same. Q. You’re going to be roasted by the Friar’s Club on Jan. 30 to benefit the Boomer Esiason Foundation and the Gift of Laughter Wounded Warrior Program. Who on the dais do you think will give you the harshest treatment? A. I say C.C. (Carton), Sam Wyche, Bill Cowher and Jay Mohr. One thing they have in common, there’s no way that they would’ve been a success without me. Q. Tell me something nobody knows about Carton, your funny and feisty WFAN partner? A. Because Craig is so entertaining and so smart and knows how to get under the skin of sports fans, many people don’t realize how great of a father he is. I could easily nominate C.C. for Father of the Year, every year since the day I met him. Go to Home Page »
Travel   Budget-Friendly and (Almost) Dracula-Free Transylvania. Advertisement Advertisement Seth Kugel FRUGAL TRAVELER JAN. 27, 2014 “Our ways are not your ways, and there shall be to you many strange things,” said a certain sharp-fanged count to his English visitor, freshly arrived by train to Transylvania. In some sense, things haven’t changed much since Bram Stoker published those words in 1897. I arrived by train myself in mid-January and I, too, found strange things: A picture-perfect medieval town square packed not with tourists but primary school students. “Bagel” shops that don’t sell bagels. An Eastern Orthodox priest denouncing guitar lessons and raising bees. Look, I fully intended to experience and write about Transylvania with no mention of vampires or anything described in novel by an Irishman who had never visited the region. I even requested that Twitter followers tracking my travels abstain from Dracula-related remarks. That’s because the real place — now a large swath of central and western Romania and almost certainly the place on earth most commonly mistaken for fictional — is mountainous and beautiful, its ancient towns lively and well preserved, its ethnic and political history rich and complex. In other words, a place well worth discovering in its own right, not digressing to mentions of scary monsters. Advertisement That worked until I was taking money from an A.T.M. in the scrupulously well-preserved medieval center of Sighisoara. Glancing up, I saw the sign: “Banca Transilvania” — and realized I was down the block from a medieval clock tower with torture chamber beneath; across the street was the house where Vlad the Impaler, a.k.a. Draculae, is said to have been born in 1431. A chill went down my spine. In my head, well trained since “Sesame Street” and “Scooby Doo” days in how vampires operate, organ music played, and lightning crackled. I had come to Transylvania in the winter knowing that I would be sacrificing the mountain hikes and farm stays popular among summer visitors — but hoping to find cheaper prices, snow-dusted castles and perhaps a day of skiing. And soul-satisfying food: If there was ever a dish made for post-slope replenishment, it’s Romanian ciorba de burta, the cream-based tripe soup that is rich, ubiquitous and cheap. Alas, there had been no snow for a month, which meant no skiing, no fairy-tale dusting of ancient roofs. Still, having medieval towns and villages of Transylvania to yourself has its advantages. In Brasov, the 250,000-person city where I spent a day, that meant being the lone person gawking at the 16th-century Black Church, framing photographs through old city gates, and wondering at how just about every building in town is marked “Monument Istoric”. Still, some were more obviously Istoric than others. Wandering narrow side streets I fell for a tiny 1837 home with an intricately carved wooden door and faux Corinthian columns bordering the windows; in front of it was a Romanian-made Dacia car propped up half on the sidewalk to allow traffic to pass. The brisk winter temperatures made me more appreciative of bakeries selling warm-from-the-oven breads. In Brasov, I stopped at a shop called Bagel Magic, which in fact serves warm covrigi, which are like bagels Photoshopped like a celebrity for a cover photo — from pudgy and irregular to slender yet curvaceous (without, thankfully, airbrushing out the poppy seeds). Mine cost 1.5 lei, or 45 cents at 3.25 lei to the dollar. In Sighisoara, young and old lined up in the rain to pay one leu for truly piping-hot covrigi at the sales window of Gigi. Brasov is the traditional home base for visits to two castles in the region: Bran and Peles. They could not be more different. Bran Castle is probably the most touristy spot in Transylvania thanks to its completely dubious connections with both the fictional and historic Dracula. But with summer hordes replaced by a handful of Romanian tourists and a school field trip, I quite enjoyed the visit (the 25-lei admission price didn’t hurt). Perched almost precariously on the side of a hill, the castle — which once served as a toll collector’s headquarters and a defense post against Ottoman aggressors — truly seems like the sort of place a vampire might have lived. In fact, I found out, the home was last used as a residence by the Romanian royal family before it was seized by the Communist government, and it is decorated largely from that period. (Although on the higher levels, things did get a tiny bit creepy — up there, where wind swirled and whistled outside, I came upon some restrained displays about Dracula.) Peles Castle is a wholly different and entirely more mind-boggling experience. Built by King Carol I as a summer residence beginning in 1873, its lavish halls are filled with endlessly ornate detail, like a Versailles for the late 19th century: Carol seems to have spared no expense in the Arab and Turkish-themed rooms; his astoundingly vast European arms collection — swords, battle axes, guns — is displayed in all its excess in one hall, along with a full-on man and horse armor display that will leave no medieval fantasist unhappy. In an adjoining room is his collection of Ottoman and Persian arms, so flowery and ornate by comparison that they look runway-ready for Constantinople Fashion Week. Still, Sighisoara, under three hours from Brasov by train (and free for me, as it was the first leg of my already-purchased return trip to Budapest), was the highlight. I’m very picky about medieval walled towns, having skewered places from Dubrovnik, Croatia, to Èze, France, as little more than polished museum pieces. But unlike those places (and true to what guidebooks said), Sighisoara is truly living medieval town, its 16th- through 18th-century homes largely still inhabited. When I stopped into a place called the Medieval Cafe for a 5-lei warm winter drink made of black currants, I could hear children playing in the neighboring schoolyard; I would later see the same kids rushing out of school in the square in front of the clock tower, which in many other places would be strictly tourist territory. Advertisement The city walls are guarded over by eclectic watchtowers, each maintained by (and named for) a different guild of historic craftsmen — tailors, tanners, cobblers, furriers, rope makers. But the clock tower is the true fairy-tale attraction. It was first built in the 13th and 14th centuries; a Baroque roof was added in the 17th century, along with its most charming element, seven figurines based on Greek and Roman gods that rotate each day of the week. From the belvedere at the top (which you reach through the creaky-floored museum, 12 lei) you get a remarkable 360-degree view of the city; astonishingly, I could spot barely a single building, even in the more modern lower city, that appeared to have been built in the 20th or 21st century. Eager to see the much-touted Carpathian villages, I rented a car (I paid in euros, the equivalent of $33 a day) and drove out to the rural villages, many of which feature impressive fortified Saxon churches. That Saxon population, which once dominated many of the villages, has since largely evacuated to Germany, replaced by Romanians, Hungarians and Roma, the three largest ethnic groups in Transylvania today. (For those wondering, the last Romanian census counted zero vampires, though admittedly was largely taken in the daylight.) After passing through Biertan, whose church was closed and residents not very chatty, I found a warmer reception a mile or so away in Copsa Mare. In the local magazin mixt — the cool Romanian term for convenience store — a woman used hand gestures to explain that I should knock at the house next to the church; there, an adolescent boy fetched the key and led me through its battered arched doorway. The old church wasn’t anything special, although the experience of getting into it had been. So I left a donation in the bowl and took off to wander the town. It was a village of dirt roads and modest, mostly Saxon-style houses; I noticed nothing out of the ordinary except several young girls carrying around guitars. When a young man pulling buckets of water from a well spoke to me in near perfect English, I asked him about the guitars. “There’s a lady in the town who is teaching the children,” he said. “Great!” I said. He did not agree. He was the town’s Orthodox priest, and the guitar lessons, he said, were an effort to recruit families to the Pentecostal church in town. He introduced himself as John (his name is actually Ioan Bico) and seemed delighted to entertain me for the next few hours. He may have been a priest, but he wielded a sharp tongue recounting an opinionated chapter of the town’s recent ethnic history. To summarize: the Saxons used to refuse to marry Romanians, yet when they moved to Germany, the men found themselves discriminated against and returned to marry not only Romanians but even the more-maligned Roma. (He called them Gypsies, and they were not spared maligning from him either.) Advertisement He eventually invited me over for a beer — nonalcoholic for me, he insisted, since I was driving — and to see the icons he paints and sells to supplement his meager pay. He was also a beekeeper, and I happily bought a jar of honey for 20 lei. Conversation ranged from Hollywood to the Internet to birth control and abortion. (He did not think highly of any of the four.) I had not eaten since breakfast, so I headed back to Sighisoara in search of a reasonably priced meal. Finding the pub-like Cafe Martini near the town center, I ordered a feast as most customers just drank beer and listened to a soundtrack lost in the ‘80s (Springsteen, Tina Turner, Asia). I had that tripe soup called ciorba de burta, mititei (grilled ground meat patties), cascaval pane (breaded, fried cheese), and the great Romanian dessert of papanasi (hot doughnuts, topped with sour cream and currant jam) — and returned, stuffed, to my guesthouse. I was staying at Casa Soare, a family-run pension in the lower town, a 10-minute walk down from the citadel, where I had scored a winter discount at 80 lei a night — about 20 percent off the Booking.com price — by calling in advance. It was a nice place and worth the modest expense, but I had two lodging regrets. The first — that I had not stayed in a village or on a farm — was unavoidable: Most rural guesthouses were closed for the winter. But I realized I had missed an opportunity when I picked up my rental car at Casa Baroca, just down the block from the Vlad Dracul house. I got a tour of the place, and it was amazing. Entering through the 300 year-old front door, I found rooms under vaulted ceilings decorated with traditional furniture, antique wood stoves, old wood floors. And winter prices were only slightly more than what I was paying: 100 lei, down from 140 in summer. Advertisement Still, perhaps I was better off at my place. Staying at Casa Baroca, I had learned, would be in violation of a town ordinance forbidding foreigners to lodge in the citadel. Admittedly, the law was written around 1515 and is probably not still in effect, but in a city with a torture chamber, you can’t be too careful. For more photos from Transylvania, go to Seth Kugel’s public Facebook page or follow him on Instagram, @sethkugel. See More » Go to Home Page »
Business   Wheelies: The Detroit Rising Edition. Advertisement Advertisement By BENJAMIN PRESTONJAN. 28, 2014 A roundup of motoring news from the web: ■ This year’s Detroit auto show reported its highest attendance in more than 10 years. A total of 803,451 people visited the 2014 show — a significant one for General Motors, which took both the North American car and truck of the year awards. Attendance has not been that high since 838,066 people came to the show in 2003. (Jalopnik) ■ In its efforts to get people used to the idea that its new F-150 pickup trucks will be built with aluminum bodies, Ford told its dealers Sunday that the new trucks will actually be cheaper and easier to repair than the outgoing model. Ford said that the aluminum bodies are set up in a modular design — as opposed to the welded design of the old steel trucks — that simplifies repairs by making them less time-consuming. (Reuters) ■ In other F-150-related news, Ford says that the new 2.7-liter V6 the automaker introduced with the new pickup has a unique two-piece engine block. Most engines are either all aluminum or all cast iron, but Ford’s new engine has an upper part — housing the cylinder bores — made from compacted graphite iron and a lower half made from aluminum. The unusual construction allowed Ford to make the engine very small; it is only 18 inches long from front to back. (Automotive News, subscription required) ■ BMW says that its all-electric i3 will arrive in American showrooms in May, priced similarly to the 3 Series. Ludwig Willisch, who heads BMW North America, said that the United States would be the company’s largest market for the i Series electric cars, adding that demand for the i3 will most likely outstrip supply in the first year of production. (Bloomberg) Advertisement ■ Volvo and Zhejiang Geely Holding Group, of which Volvo is a subsidiary, will jointly develop a small car to compete with the Ford Fiesta, Honda Fit, Toyota Yaris and Volkswagen Polo, among others. Engineering work is to be done at a research and development center in Sweden, and Hakan Samuelsson, chief executive of Volvo, told The Wall Street Journal that the car would be designed to compete in Western markets in a few years. (Automotive News, subscription required) ■ After many races lost to teams with superior equipment, Scuderia Ferrari unveiled its new Formula One racecar on its website over the weekend. The F14 T drops last season’s 2.4-liter V8 in favor of a new turbocharged 1.6-liter V6 and features a lower nose cone and an improved energy recovery system. (CNN) ■ Ralph Marano, a noted Packard collector, is scheduled to take 10 one-of-a-kind Packards this year to the Amelia Island Concours d'Élégance. The show’s organizers agreed to create a class entirely for Mr. Marano’s unique collection of vehicles, which include the Vignale Packard and the Richard Arbib-designed Packard Pan America. (Hemmings Daily) ■ Nissan announced this week its plan to use a 400-horsepower turbocharged 1.5-liter 3-cylinder engine that weighed only 88 pounds in its delta-shaped Le Mans racecar. Nissan claims the engine has a power-to-weight ratio of 10 horsepower per kilogram, which the automaker says is more potent than Formula One’s new 1.6-liter engines. (Automobile Magazine) Go to Home Page »
Food   Recipe Lab. Our favorite recipes explained in two minutes or less.          Great Clash: Donald Trump vs. Paul Ryan So You Want to Do a Handstand? Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics This Week’s Movies | May 6, 2016 Illustrated Interview | Buzz Aldrin Welfare and the Politics of Poverty Why It’s Hard to Keep the Pounds Off Best of Obama's Correspondents' Dinner Speech How Will Obama Spend His Retirement? Erdogan’s March to Autocracy in Turkey
Foreign   A Dynast’s Flailing Makeover. Advertisement   NEW DELHI — In September, Rahul Gandhi, vice president of the Congress Party and scion of the Nehru-Gandhi dynasty, made an unannounced public appearance at a news conference in New Delhi. Minutes previously, Mr. Gandhi had called up Ajay Maken, the party’s general secretary, to ask him his whereabouts. Now, as Mr. Maken was defending a controversial government ordinance that prevented convicted politicians from being removed from office Mr. Gandhi seized the microphone. “I think the ordinance is complete nonsense,” he said. “It should be torn up and thrown away.” Mr. Gandhi’s outburst left Mr. Maken, and most senior leaders of the Congress Party, stunned. Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, away in the United States to attend the United Nations General Assembly, had to face a public humiliation, hours before an important meeting with President Obama. It is inconceivable that the ordinance, which sparked an instant backlash from the media and the public, could have been passed without Mr. Gandhi’s knowledge. Yet, once he had taken note of the public mood, Mr. Gandhi seized the moment to engineer a shift in how he was seen by the Indian electorate. Mr. Gandhi, the ultimate insider in Indian politics, was now refashioning himself as an outside agent of change. That shift had been necessitated, in large part, by the steady and growing unpopularity of the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance government. It is impossible to judge whether his outburst in September was an impulsive decision or a carefully calculated move. But it is clear that Mr. Gandhi increasingly feels the need to come across as accessible, articulate and decisive. His decision to subject himself to his first-ever television interview, with a popular network that aired the exchange Monday night, was a step in the same direction. Until his remarks in September, Mr. Gandhi had sought to cultivate the image of a leader who shunned public attention and preferred to work inconspicuously behind the scenes. In 2005, during an interview to the newsmagazine Tehelka, it was put to Mr. Gandhi that he asked few questions in Parliament. “I don’t ask questions in Parliament because I like to think things through,” he had replied. Mr. Gandhi portrayed himself as a politician unwilling to engage with the distracting minutiae of everyday politics. He was instead working on a grand design of resuscitating the Congress Party, democratizing the organization at the grass-roots and reinventing India’s oldest political party for the 21st century. It was an impression that Mr. Gandhi cultivated for much of his early years in politics. In the raucous and frenetic world of Indian politics, Mr. Gandhi remained ensconced in a long and seemingly intense silence. For fleeting observers of Indian democracy, it may have seemed that Mr. Gandhi alone was thinking about the great, profound and significant questions of our time. The thinking though was rarely, if ever, evident to his countrymen, to whom he remained little beyond an enigma. His thoughts on the most vexing questions of the day remained unrecorded for the electorate. But as long as the central government enjoyed some degree of modest popularity, Mr. Gandhi could always partake some of the credit, though his own contributions to policy making and other aspects of the government remained vague and undefined. A change in strategy became imperative once it became clear that it would be politically unwise for Mr. Gandhi, who was certain to lead the Congress Party into the next elections, to align himself too closely with a deeply unpopular government. His own failures in reviving the fortunes of the Congress in the key states of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh also meant that a new direction was needed to ignite Mr. Gandhi’s appeal for the electorate. Mr. Gandhi would have to be remade for public consumption, and so he began the process of fashioning himself as the crusading outsider last fall. Another factor, one outside Mr. Gandhi’s control, may have played a part too. In a country, where ideas of citizenship and egalitarian democracy are deepening, being the embodiment of dynastic and feudal privilege is a greater liability than ever before in Indian politics. In his televised interview on Monday night, Mr. Gandhi continued to play the crusader. He did not have a hunger for power, he asserted; instead he was in politics to “change the system.” Mr. Gandhi’s interview was, in many ways, a bumbling and bizarre performance. His depth of engagement with critical issues looked uncertain. Posed with specific questions, Mr. Gandhi repeatedly sought to seek refuge in vague, and seemingly rehearsed, generalities. When asked his views of Narendra Modi, the opposition’s candidate for prime minister, Mr. Gandhi responded, “What Rahul Gandhi wants to do, is Rahul Gandhi and millions of youngsters in this country want to change the way the system in this country works. What Rahul Gandhi wants to do is empower the women in this country, wants to unleash the power of these women, I mean we talk about being a superpower …” The interview also delineated the very real limits of Mr. Gandhi’s outsider act. When asked about the 1984 anti-Sikh riots, after the assassination of his grandmother, Indira Gandhi, and perpetrated under the watch of his father, Rajiv Gandhi, Mr. Gandhi sought to mount a dubious distinction between the pogrom in 1984 and the anti-Muslim riots of 2002 in Gujarat, which took place while Mr. Modi was chief minister of the state. Contrary to established evidence by independent human rights groups that indicts both governments of active collusion, Mr. Gandhi stated, “In 1984, the government was trying to stop the riots. In 2002, the government was actively aiding and abetting the riots.” If Mr. Gandhi had hoped to come across to undecided voters as the catalyst for change, he failed. But most alarmingly for supporters of the Congress Party, Mr. Gandhi’s interview revealed that despite a decade in politics, he had little to offer that was substantive and novel. Despite an active “rebranding” exercise, Mr. Gandhi reinforced the impression of a reluctant politician, inspired by little more than feudal obligation to carry forward the family business. Vaibhav Vats is a writer based in New Delhi. India’s national elections began April 7 and will continue on nine separate dates until May 12, with results expected to be announced on May 16. The vote is the world’s largest, with 814 million eligible voters set to choose 543 members of the lower house of Parliament. The other two seats will be appointed by the president. This election is widely considered to be India’s most consequential since 1977. India Ink will be moving to the World page of The New York Times. Read more… A memorial ceremony at the Imphal War Cemetery in Manipur to honor the soldiers who died during World War II.Read more… The newly elected prime minister reaches out to the public in a blog post about his first 30 days in office.Read more… Newborns whose mothers are unable to breastfeed are given stored breast milk to protect them from potentially life-threatening infection.Read more… In the final stage of a long decline, Hindustan Motors announced in May that it would suspend production of the Ambassador, a car that was once synonymous with style and status.Read more… This report on India from the journalists of The New York Times and a pool of talented writers in India and beyond provides unbiased, authoritative reporting on the country and its place in the world. India Ink also strives to be a virtual meeting point for discussion of this complex, fast-changing democracy – its politics, economy, culture and everyday life. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Movies   The Carpetbagger. Get behind the scenes of Hollywood’s awards season, with close-up looks at Oscar-nominated films and exclusive red-carpet access to the hottest actors, actresses and directors.          Great Clash: Donald Trump vs. Paul Ryan So You Want to Do a Handstand? Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics This Week’s Movies | May 6, 2016 Illustrated Interview | Buzz Aldrin Welfare and the Politics of Poverty Why It’s Hard to Keep the Pounds Off Best of Obama's Correspondents' Dinner Speech How Will Obama Spend His Retirement? Erdogan’s March to Autocracy in Turkey
Business   Wheelies: The Small Car Smashup Edition. Advertisement Advertisement By BENJAMIN PRESTONFEB. 1, 2014 A roundup of motoring news from the web: ■ A series of crash tests were recently conducted on small cars popular in India, and a number of them – including the Tata Nano, Maruti Suzuki Alto 800 and Hyundai i10 – performed poorly. India currently has no safety regulations for vehicles sold there, but Oscar Fernandes, the minister of road and surface transport, said crash testing would become a requirement. (Aljazeera) ■ After selling just shy of 10 million vehicles in 2013, Toyota led worldwide auto sales for the year, followed by Volkswagen, which sold 9.73 million vehicles, and General Motors, which sold 9.71 million. But second place is a matter of reckoning. Volkswagen’s tally for 2013 included heavy-duty truck sales; for sales of light-duty vehicles, G.M. still ranked second. (The Detroit News) ■ Next week, 70 new cars and motorcycles will be unveiled at the auto expo to be held near Delhi, India. Although the majority of the model debuts will be India-specific, 26 will be global curtain raisers, from manufacturers including Hyundai, BMW and Mercedes-Benz. (The Times of India) ■ Jerry Seinfeld’s web series, “Comedians in Cars Getting Coffee,” garnered 25 million streams during its third season. Mr. Seinfeld said that the show, the title of which aptly explains what each short episode is about, has “gotten completely out of hand.” In a good way, of course. Fourth and fifth seasons appear to be on the horizon. (The Wrap) Advertisement ■ In preparation for a 15 percent production increase for F-Series Super Duty trucks, Ford said it would invest $80 million into its truck plant in Louisville, Ky. When the upgrades are completed, Ford says the plant, which builds F-250, F-350, F-450 and F-550 Super Duty pickups, as well as the Ford Expedition and Lincoln Navigator S.U.V.'s – will be able to crank out an additional 55,000 trucks a year. (Automotive News, subscription required) ■ According to a report from Cars.com, the average transaction price for vehicles sold in the United States in January declined 1.2 percent since January 2013, to $29,882. The average transaction price has fallen 3.3 percent since December 2013, the report said. (The Wall Street Journal) ■ Mercedes-Benz announced this week the debut of its V-Class van for the European market. The eight-passenger people mover will be powered by one of three 2.1-liter turbodiesel engines, with the top model producing 190 horsepower. Mercedes did not say whether it would sell the V-Class in the United States. (Autoblog) ■ The British House of Lords supported legislation that could lead to a ban on smoking in cars while children are present. Britain already has a ban on smoking in work vehicles. (Express) Go to Home Page »
Foreign   British Nuclear Reprocessing Plant Detected Elevated Radiation Levels. Advertisement Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSJAN. 31, 2014 Elevated radiation levels detected Friday at the Sellafield nuclear reprocessing plant in northwestern England were caused by naturally occurring background radon, not by any faults at the aging plant, the operating company said. Only essential workers were asked to report for work as safety teams worked to pinpoint the cause of the elevated radiation, which was reported on one monitor at the plant — the largest nuclear site in Europe. Sellafield said its on-site monitors detected unusual activity overnight, leading it to reduce staffing levels on Friday as a precaution. “Following investigation and analysis, we can now confirm these levels to be naturally occurring background radon,” the company said. It said that there had been no risk to public safety and that the plant was never shut down. Nuclear reprocessing involves separating uranium and plutonium from nuclear waste for reuse as fuel, and treating the waste for storage. A version of this brief appears in print on February 1, 2014, on page A9 of the New York edition with the headline: Britain: Nuclear Reprocessing Plant Detected Elevated Radiation Levels. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Sports   Marlins Minor Leaguer Is Suspended. Advertisement Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSJAN. 31, 2014 A minor league pitcher in the Miami Marlins’ organization was suspended for 50 games. The commissioner’s office said the pitcher, the right-hander Ronny Fermin of the rookie-level Gulf Coast League, had tested positive for a performance-enhancing substance. Go to Home Page »
Business   Richard Grossman, Crusading Publisher of 1960s, Dies at 92. Advertisement Advertisement By DOUGLAS MARTINFEB. 1, 2014 In the early 1960s, Richard Grossman, who died on Monday at 92, was a new publisher looking for a big book, and automobile safety appealed to him as a topic. He had been moved by an article on the subject in The New Republic. At the same time, a young lawyer named Ralph Nader, who had been studying car safety for several years, wanted to write a book in which he would contend that automakers had long put profits ahead of safety. One publisher, in rebuffing him, told him that such a book would interest only insurance adjusters. The journalist James Ridgeway, who had written the magazine article and who had used Mr. Nader as his principal source, brought Mr. Grossman and Mr. Nader together. They signed a contract that gave Mr. Nader a $3,000 advance. The deal resulted in “Unsafe at Any Speed: The Designed-in Dangers of the American Automobile,” published in 1965, which helped jump-start the modern consumer movement, much as Rachel Carson’s “Silent Spring” ignited environmentalism in 1962. The book — named, edited and promoted by Mr. Grossman — maintained that a compact car, the Chevrolet Corvair, made by General Motors, had “designed-in” features that made it prone to spills and rollovers. Its larger message, Justin Martin wrote in “Nader: Crusader, Spoiler, Icon” (2002), was that “unaccountable forces — the auto industry in this case — made decisions that affect the lives of individual citizens.” Mr. Nader was even blunter in a telephone interview on Friday. He said the book “showed the cruelty of the modern corporation.” Richard Lee Grossman was born in Chicago on June 26, 1921, and moved to New York City as a child. He was a pre-med student at the University of Pennsylvania for two years, then transferred to City College in New York, where he studied religion for a year before dropping out, unable to afford to continue his studies. Advertisement He served in the Army Signal Corps in the Pacific during World War II, earning a bronze star and attaining the rank of captain. After his discharge, he worked in a department store in Canton, Ohio, then started an advertising agency there and began writing an advertising column for a home furnishings magazine published by Fairchild Publications. A family connection later landed him a job at the publishing house Simon & Schuster, where he rose to vice president. He founded his own concern, Grossman Publishers, in 1962 in a basement apartment in Manhattan. He and Mr. Nader met there to iron out their contract. Mr. Nader rushed to finish the book in advance of the congressional hearings on car safety that he had agitated for, and he and Mr. Grossman met at a Washington motel to edit the book. Mr. Grossman set up two typewriters side by side in the room. As soon as Mr. Nader finished a page, he would hand it to Mr. Grossman for editing. Working day and night, they finished the book in 22 days. Mr. Grossman’s publicity campaign for “Unsafe at Any Speed” culminated in a news conference with Mr. Nader at the Sheraton Cadillac Hotel in Detroit, the site chosen because G.M. made Cadillacs. It proved to be a publicity masterstroke: the heads of car companies who had been invited did not show, conspicuously so, and Mr. Nader put on a deft performance parrying hostile questions from the trade press. The first 9,000 copies of the book, published on Nov. 30, 1965, sold out, and by March almost 22,000 copies had been purchased. But it did not become a best seller until news reports revealed that G.M. had hired investigators to try to collect dirt on Mr. Nader. At a Senate hearing on March 22, 1966, James M. Roche, the chairman of G.M., apologized to Mr. Nader for what he called “harassment.” That September, President Lyndon B. Johnson signed the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act, which set safety standards for cars and roads. Advertisement Mr. Grossman went on to publish books by Mr. Nader and his associates on air and water pollution, food and drugs, pesticides and coal-mine safety, all of which helped lead to the passage of major legislation. He also published literary books, including “84 Charing Cross Road,” Helene Hanff’s 1970 bestseller about her 20-year correspondence with the chief clerk of an antiquarian bookstore in London. (A film version starring Anne Bancroft and Anthony Hopkins was released in 1987.) He published a half-dozen books by Louis Zukofsky, an American Jewish poet known for vivid verses inspired by Manhattan’s Lower East Side. In 1971, he published “Scorpion,” a novel by Albert Memmi set in the author’s native Tunis. Among the company’s nonfiction titles was ”Dallas Public and Private: Aspects of an American City,” Warren Leslie’s portrayal of right-wing extremism in Dallas at the time of President John F. Kennedy’s assassination. Mr. Grossman sold his business to Viking in 1968. A man of many interests, he became a psychotherapist, with offices in Manhattan and Salisbury, Conn.; an authority on alternative medicine; and a published expert on Ralph Waldo Emerson. His book “Choosing and Changing: A Guide to Self-Reliance” (1978) gave advice on midlife career changes. His “A Year With Emerson: A Daybook” (2003) offers daily almanac entries of Emerson’s wisdom. Mr. Grossman died in Salisbury. His wife, the author Ann Arensberg, said the cause was leukemia. His marriages to Elizabeth Heiden and Jill Kneerim ended in divorce. Besides his wife, Mr. Grossman is survived by his daughters, Joan Grossman, Nancy Nagle and Lucy Rochambeau. One story he liked to tell about his publishing days concerned a visit to the photographer Richard Avedon at his home on the day President John F. Kennedy was assassinated. He found Mr. Avedon crying. “Where are your 35-millimeter cameras?” he said to Mr. Avedon, who was best known for his fashion work. “Get out on the streets immediately.” The haunted faces of grief that Mr. Avedon shot that day are considered some of his most moving work. Advertisement Mr. Grossman himself was photographed, anonymously, for the cover of one edition of “The Man in the Gray Flannel Suit,” Sloan Wilson’s best-selling 1955 novel about a soulless business culture in postwar America. Jonathan Schwartz, the radio personality and a friend of Mr. Grossman’s, wrote in an email, “His pose was jaunty — the perfect suit with his back to the camera.” A version of this article appears in print on February 2, 2014, on page A21 of the New York edition with the headline: Richard Grossman, 92, Crusading Publisher of 1960s. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Foreign   In Our Pages: February 3. Advertisement   VIENNA— The most extraordinary rumors are still circulating as to Prince Rudolf’s death, and almost every hour a new sensational story is told, not only about the terrible event, but also prominent persons who are believed to have some connection with the Meierling tragedy. Thus, for example, there are people who profess to have positive information that Prince Schwarzenberg has committed suicide, while others say that it is not he, but Prince Auersberg who has made away with himself. Others again talk significantly about the disappearance of a certain beautiful Baroness W— , whom no one has seen since Tuesday. But few people give any credence to the official version of the Archduke’s death. I am assured that the autopsy does not make any mention of the cerebral lesions. It is probable that this document will not be made public, and that the details of the drama will never be made known officially. I give you all this gossip for what it is worth. As a matter of fact, none of them are half so important as the serious political difficulties of the situation. Such great hopes were entertained for the future of the dead Prince that everything the Archduke Francis Ferdinand does is misinterpreted. There is, however, no truth in the assertion that there will be any trouble as to the succession to the Hungarian Crown. 1939: Guillotiner of 40 Years Dies Suddenly in Paris The humble bourgeois-appearing man had been responsible for no less than 400 deaths in the last forty years. PARIS — A sad-faced little man wearing a white goatee and neat black clothes staggered among the crowd in the Porte de Saint- Cloud Métro station Wednesday night [Jan. 31] , and suddenly sprawled out on the floor dead. No one who witnessed the accident realized that the humble bourgeois-appearing man had been responsible for no less than 400 deaths in the last forty years. It was only as he was being rushed to a hospital that attendants searching his pockets for identity papers discovered that he was that sinister personage known as ‘‘Monsieur de Paris’’ —otherwise Anatole Deibler, last of the dynasty that has held the position of official guillotiner in France for 120 years. To one man in France, M. Deibler’s death — caused by congestion due to the cold — brought temporary relief. He was Maurice Pilorge, who was due to have his head chopped off in Rennes at dawn this morning for the murder of a Mexican named Escudero at Din- ard. M. Deibler was on his way to the Ministry of Justice to obtain the execution order and collect his expenses when he died.  This blog will share highlights and curiosities from The International Herald Tribune's storied reportage. While we will share coverage of historic events — the world wars, the women's suffrage movement, the great expeditions — we will also republish glimpses of less earth-shaking moments and the ephemera of daily life. The same stories that caught the eyes of our generations of editors now offer us insight into the lives and interests of generations of Trib readers. Read more » From the International Herald Tribune archives: The Vichy government limits menus in 1941.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: A Nigerian officer at war sends a dispatch in 1916. Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: Germany establishes a naval repair shop 500 miles from South America in 1941.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: Prince Victor Napoleon gives a treatise on French politics in 1891.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: British troops attack Irak forces in 1941.Read more… Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Movies   Philip Seymour Hoffman’s Many Roles. A look back at the career of Philip Seymour Hoffman, who was found dead Sunday. He was perhaps the most admired American actor of his generation.          
Society   Lisa Udelson and Chris Nee. Advertisement Advertisement FEB. 2, 2014 Lisa Jane Udelson and Chris Nee were married Friday at the Beverly Hills Courthouse in Los Angeles. Nancy Claibourne, a deputy marriage commissioner, officiated. Ms. Udelson (left), 54, is a film editor and independent documentary filmmaker in Los Angeles. She co-directed “Same Difference,” a documentary that made its debut in 2011 at the Cleveland Film Festival. She graduated from the University of Michigan. She is a daughter of Harriet A. Udelson of Cleveland and the late Bernard Udelson. Ms. Nee, 44, is the creator and the executive producer of “Doc McStuffins,” an animated preschool series on Disney Junior, a cable television channel. She has written for other children’s television shows, including “Little Bill” and “The Backyardigans,” both on Nickelodeon. She graduated from New York University. She is the daughter of Mary M. DeSilva of New York and Patrick W. Nee Sr. of Roslindale, Mass., and the stepdaughter of Roland DeSilva. A version of this article appears in print on February 2, 2014, on page ST13 of the New York edition with the headline: Lisa Udelson, Chris Nee. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Sports   Super Bowl Slide Show. The Seahawks fan Conner Byrne, from Seattle, stood among Denver Broncos fans on a New Jersey Transit train to Secaucus to connect to a train to MetLife Stadium for the Super Bowl, which Seattle won, 43-8, on Sunday. CreditMichael Appleton for The New York Times 1 of 27 This weekend’s America’s Cup World Series race in the Hudson River is preparing Oracle Team U.S.A. for the 2017 America’s Cup in Bermuda.
Travel   Security Concerns on a Honduran Island. Advertisement Advertisement By DAVE SEMINARAJAN. 31, 2014 Honduras has the highest murder rate in the world, but the country’s idyllic Bay Islands have long been considered a safe haven, largely immune from the drug-fueled violence that has plagued the Honduran mainland. However, a string of recent crimes on Roatán, the largest of the Bay Islands, has prompted outrage, with some residents calling for greater autonomy and more effective policing for the islands. Roatán made international headlines on Dec. 22 when Nedenia Post Dye, the great-granddaughter of the General Foods heiress Marjorie Merriweather Post, was found stabbed to death in her luxury spa on the island. A local singer whom she was reportedly trying to help has been charged with her murder; he claims the two were romantically linked. “People let their guard down here because it’s beautiful and relaxing,” said Aaron Etches, a longtime resident of Roatán who founded a Facebook group called Roatán Crime Watch about a year ago in the wake of several high-profile crimes as a way to help fight crime on the island. The group has more than 2,000 members, and in the last month, users have reported a host of robberies, including a Jan. 2 incident in which an armed bandit fired a shot at an American family who were visiting Roatán for the day on the Carnival Conquest and robbed them in broad daylight close to the Palm Beach Resort. “People told us things like this don’t usually happen on Roatán, but it’s a dangerous place,” said Jeff Smith, a pilot for Delta Air Lines who was in the vehicle along with his wife and three young daughters. Advertisement Despite the recent reports of incidents, Robert Armstrong, a former Foreign Service officer who is the editor of Bay Islands Voice, an English-language magazine based in Roatán, said that according to the local police, there were 17 homicides on the island in the first eight months of 2013, none involving tourists, compared with nine during the same period in 2012. “The crime rate here is much lower than on the mainland, but the gap is closing,” he said. A spokesperson for Carnival said Roatán had historically been a safe destination since the line started calling there in 2009. The State Department updated its travel warning for Honduras on Dec. 24, cautioning that the “level of crime and violence in Honduras remains critically high.” The warning didn’t specifically address crime in Roatán but it noted that members of the Honduran National Police were known to engage in criminal activity and had solved just two of the 50 murders committed against United States citizens in the country since 2008. Karol Escalante, a spokeswoman for the Embassy of Honduras in Washington, said incidents of crime against tourists were rare and maintained that the government was beefing up security in tourist destinations like Roatán. (She claimed that crime decreased at the national level in 2013 but had no figures for Roatán.) Mr. Etches said that business owners have formed watch committees and are preparing to install more security cameras around the island. Amy Robertson, author of the Moon Handbook to Honduras and the Bay Islands, said she believed that Roatán is still a safe destination, but cautioned that visitors should check with locals before venturing to the far east end of the island past the town of Oak Ridge. Expatriates who live on Roatán advise visitors not to walk alone on the stretch of beach between West Bay and West End and to avoid Coxen Hole after dark. Mr. Armstrong said that visitors should stick to the island’s main road unless they were with a group. “Stay on the paved roads, be aware that there is a different threat level here than you’re used to at home, and don’t carry a lot of cash and valuables with you,” he said. A version of this article appears in print on February 2, 2014, on page TR2 of the New York edition with the headline: An Island Steps Up Security. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
U.S.   A Deepening Drought in the West. State park rangers burned weeds on the exposed lake bed of the Rye Patch Reservoir in Nevada, which was at 3.5 percent capacity amid a drought that has caused the worst water shortage the region has faced in more than a century.  CreditMax Whittaker for The New York Times 1 of 10 Many blacks see Chicago as a hostile city that is not a good for children. Whites are also critical of the city, but more positive overall.
Books   The Read Around: Barry Werth. “Our health care system is broken,” says Barry Werth. In his new book, “The Antidote,” he provides an inside look at one company’s efforts to find innovative ways to treat disease.          
Business   Closing Arguments in Martoma Trial. Advertisement   The prosecutor, Eugene Ingoglia, an assistant United States attorney, told the jury that to find his canary, Mr. Martoma built up relationships with two doctors involved in the drug trial, which was run by Elan and Wyeth. These relationships “paid off in the most dramatic way” when Mr. Martoma used the information to trade before Elan announced its negative trial results, a move that eventually led SAC to avoid losses and make profits totaling $275 million, Mr. Ingoglia said. But the defense asserted that the government’s case against Mr. Martoma was “fatally flawed” because it hinged on testimony from a doctor and his “totally unbelievable” memory. Mr. Martoma’s case follows the conviction of another top SAC portfolio manager, Michael S. Steinberg, and is at the heart of the government’s decade-long investigation into SAC, which has resulted in six former employees pleading guilty to insider trading charges. In November, SAC itself pleaded guilty to insider trading charges and agreed to pay a $1.2 billion fine. The courtroom on Monday was so packed with spectators wanting to hear the closing arguments that nearly two dozen people had to stand against the wall. Two prosecutors who won the Steinberg case were among those in the audience. The jury is expected to start deliberating on Tuesday. During the four-week trial, the two doctors, Joel S. Ross and Sidney Gilman, testified that they had given Mr. Martoma inside information about the drug trial, breaching their confidentiality agreements with Elan and Wyeth. Both doctors have signed nonprosecution agreements with the government that give them immunity as long as they testify truthfully. Dr. Gilman, 81, a former University of Michigan professor who was chairman of the safety committee during the drug trial, at times showed signs of a faltering memory during the five days he took the witness stand. Prosecutors used emails, electronic calendar entries and phone logs to help bolster his testimony. “He’s not remembering, he’s creating,” Richard Strassberg, the defense counsel, told the jury on Monday. Dr. Gilman testified that he gave Mr. Martoma the final results of the trial on July 17, 2008, hours after he received it himself and weeks before it was made public. Two days later, Mr. Martoma flew to Ann Arbor, Mich., to visit him and take a look at the data himself, Dr. Gilman testified. The morning after his trip, Mr. Martoma made a 20-minute call to Steven A. Cohen, the founder of SAC. The next day SAC began to liquidate its $700 million positions in Elan and Wyeth shares, a full week before Elan announced the results of the trial. Those results surprised investors, sending shares in both Elan and Wyeth plummeting on the news. But Dr. Gilman told the jury that it was only days before the trial that he remembered the details of the meeting with Mr. Martoma. Mr. Strassberg told the jury that he did not dispute the facts of Mr. Martoma’s trip, or the emails, calendar entries and phone calls showing the two spoke frequently. But, he told the jury, he was concerned that Dr. Gilman’s recollection of the details of what actually happened was faulty. Dr. Gilman also worked as a paid consultant for Gerson Lehrman, a network that connected industry experts with hedge funds like SAC. At one particularly interesting moment during the four-week trial, a star witness testified that F.B.I. agents had told him that he was “just a grain of sand, as is Mr. Martoma. They are really after a man named Steven A. Cohen.” On Monday, Mr. Strassberg told the jury that Mr. Martoma “is not a grain of sand; he is not a means to make a case against Steve Cohen.” Mr. Cohen has not been criminally charged, but he faces civil administrative charges for failing to supervise. “Mathew’s life is on the line,” Mr. Strassberg told the jury, wrapping up his three-hour summation. As he paused to look at the jurors, Mr. Martoma’s wife, Rosemary, seated in the gallery just behind him, began to cry. During the government’s rebuttal, a federal prosecutor, Arlo Devlin-Brown, addressed Mr. Strassberg’s contention that Dr. Gilman had lied about passing on inside information to Mr. Martoma. He asked the jurors to consider why Dr. Gilman would lie about giving secret information to Mr. Martoma. As he finished, Mr. Devlin-Brown told the jurors that Dr. Gilman lying about his involvement in Mr. Martoma’s case “would be one of the craziest things for someone to do.” A version of this article appears in print on 02/04/2014, on page B7 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Closing Arguments in Martoma Trial. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   North Korea Agrees to Talks on Reunions. Advertisement Advertisement By CHOE SANG-HUNFEB. 3, 2014 SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea agreed on Monday to hold border talks with South Korea this week to discuss arranging reunions where relatives separated by the Korean War would meet for the first time in six decades, officials here said. North Korea agreed last month to restart the reunions after a three-year hiatus and asked South Korea to pick the dates. Last Monday, the South suggested that the reunions be held from Feb. 17 to 22 and that the two sides hold Red Cross talks on the border last Wednesday to sort out the details. Despite the South’s repeated appeals, however, the North did not respond for a week. On Monday, it said such talks could be held Wednesday or Thursday. “We welcome the North Korean response, even if it is belated,” Kim Eui-do, a spokesman for the South Korean government, said at a media briefing on Monday. South Korea had hoped to hold the Red Cross talks last week to allow the Koreas time to prepare for the reunions before the South and the United States begin joint annual military exercises scheduled for late February. North Korea has denounced the drills for being what it says are a rehearsal for an invasion, and has used such exercises as a reason to scuttle or delay family reunions. Advertisement North Korea announced last month that it was ready to hold the reunions after South Korea repeatedly urged it to prove in “action” that it was serious about recent proposals by its leader, Kim Jong-un, to improve ties with the South. Mr. Kim called for better relations in his New Year’s Day speech. But Seoul and Washington feared that the North’s latest charm offensive might be a deceptive prelude to a new round of military provocations. Millions of Koreans were separated from relatives when a cease-fire ended the Korean War in 1953, with the peninsula still divided after three years of war. No exchanges of letters, telephone calls or emails between the relatives have been allowed since. Family reunions remain a highly emotional issue and a barometer of political relations. About 22,000 Koreans participated in 18 rounds of government-arranged reunions from 1985 to 2010, when the program was suspended. About 73,000 South Koreans, half of them older than 80, remain on a waiting list to meet their relatives in the North for the first time since the war. After months of harsh talk after the North’s nuclear test last February, the Koreas agreed in August to revive the reunions. The South selected 100 people by lottery to participate. Two have since died. A version of this article appears in print on February 3, 2014, on page A6 of the New York edition with the headline: North Korea Agrees to Talks on Reunions. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Movies   A. O. Scott on Philip Seymour Hoffman. The Times movie critic A. O. Scott talks about some of his favorite Philip Seymour Hoffman roles, and what defines the actor’s legacy.          
Science   ScienceTake. See how monkeys teach manners, elephants show empathy and ants imitate water in ScienceTake, combining cutting-edge research from the world of science with stunning footage of the natural world in action.          Kim Jong-un Boasts of Nuclear Strides Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics Erdogan’s March to Autocracy in Turkey Best of Obama's Correspondents' Dinner Speech Coconut Cluster Granola So You Want to Do a Handstand? Kasich Above the Fray Cruz Responds to Trump’s Paternal Dig How Will Obama Spend His Retirement? What's a Fab Lab?
Sports   Ligety Takes Giant Slalom. Advertisement Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSFEB. 3, 2014 Ted Ligety of the United States put together two nearly flawless runs in difficult conditions to win a World Cup giant slalom Sunday in St. Moritz, Switzerland, the last men’s race before the Sochi Olympics. Ligety, a two-time world champion in the event, overcame poor visibility to finish a decisive 1.51 seconds faster than Marcel Hirscher of Austria in combined time. As fog shrouded the middle section of the course, Ligety raced to his 21st career victory and his third in a giant slalom this season. Bode Miller hit a rut and crashed out about halfway into the first run. ■ Marit Bjoergen of Norway picked up her second World Cup win of the weekend as she triumphed in the women’s freestyle sprint in Toblach, Italy. Her compatriot Ola Vigen Hattestad was victorious in the men’s event. ■ Kamil Stoch of Poland, the world champion, won the last ski jump World Cup event before the Sochi Olympics, in Willingen, Germany, to reclaim his lead in the overall standings. ■ The Japanese ski jumper Sara Takanashi won her second World Cup event in two days, in Hinzenbach, Austria, cementing her status as the favorite for Olympic gold in Sochi. A version of this brief appears in print on February 3, 2014, on page D11 of the New York edition with the headline: Ligety Takes Giant Slalom. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Business   Google Gives Eric Schmidt $100 Million in Stock. Advertisement   The cash bonus is “in recognition of his contributions to Google’s performance in fiscal year 2013,” the company said in a regulatory filing. In 2013, Google shares climbed 55 percent and joined the $1,000 club. The large payment package came as the European Union is expected to announce a settlement with Google to end a three-year antitrust investigation — a deal in which Mr. Schmidt has been highly involved, even exchanging text messages with Joaquin Almunia, the European competition commissioner. Mr. Schmidt’s compensation also follows a decision by Google’s board to allow Larry Page and Sergey Brin, Google’s founders, to cement their voting power over the company by creating a new class of shares. The $100 million in restricted stock units will vest over four years. It comes on top of another $100 million stock award the company gave Mr. Schmidt in 2011, soon after it announced that Mr. Page would replace Mr. Schmidt as chief executive. Mr. Page, meanwhile, earns $1 a year in salary (though he is worth $25 billion, largely in Google stock, according to Forbes.) Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Food   Melissa Clark. The author and cook Melissa Clark takes you into her kitchen to show you how easy it can be to make exquisite and delicious meals.          Kim Jong-un Boasts of Nuclear Strides Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics Erdogan’s March to Autocracy in Turkey Best of Obama's Correspondents' Dinner Speech Coconut Cluster Granola So You Want to Do a Handstand? Kasich Above the Fray Cruz Responds to Trump’s Paternal Dig How Will Obama Spend His Retirement? What's a Fab Lab?
Foreign   Initial Autopsy Shows Arunachal Pradesh Student Had Head Injuries, Uncle Says. Advertisement   NEW DELHI — Initial autopsy results show that Nido Tania, an 18-year-old student from the northeast who was allegedly beaten by shopkeepers in south Delhi last week, had head injuries and brain swelling before he died, Mr. Tania’s uncle told India Ink on Tuesday. Nido Jose Apil was briefed by the doctors at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences Hospital on Thursday after the autopsy was completed. “The doctor told us that there were abrasions on the head, face and neck and minor internal bleeding in the neck,” he said. “Doctors also reported the swelling of the brain.” The initial report also found an abnormal accumulation of fluid in the lungs caused a blockage of the respiratory system, which led to the young man’s death, Mr. Apil said. The final autopsy report, which includes the toxicology results, is expected later this week. The Delhi police have filed an initial complaint in the case, and on Monday, the police said they had arrested three men; identified only as Farman, 22, Sunder, 27 and Pawan, 27. Mr. Tania’s death has led to widespread protests by youths from the northeast, who denounced what they described as a “race crime.” Northeastern Indians often have East Asian features. Mr. Tania, son of a state legislator in Arunachal Pradesh, was in the Lajpat Nagar area to visit a friend, and had approached the shopkeepers at a dairy shop for directions. The shopkeepers are accused of making fun of his hairstyle and using a derogative term for East Asians, which led to a confrontation, during which Mr. Tania broke the glass of a display case at the shop. The Delhi police were called and took all parties to the station, where they brokered an agreement that Mr. Tania would pay for the damage. What happened next is in dispute. In an interview with India Ink on Saturday, Nido Pavitra, the teenager’s father, said his son described being dropped off near the store by the police and being severely beaten by the shopkeepers. The shopkeepers’ neighbors deny that any violent attack occurred. Mr. Tania was found dead in his home a day after the altercation. Mr. Pavitra lay the blame squarely on the Delhi police for failing to protect his son. He took Mr. Tania’s body to his home village in Arunachal Pradesh on Saturday. The case has spurred the authorities into action. A magisterial inquiry was announced by the Delhi state government on Friday, and on Monday, the Delhi High Court ordered the central and state governments and the Delhi Police Department to report on the actions they take in the case. Protests continued in the capital this week. On Monday, Rahul Gandhi, the vice president of the Congress Party, joined protesters who had gathered in Jantar Mantar in central Delhi, and expressed solidarity with their cause. “There is only one India which matters to me — that is an India where every single person has respect, justice and is treated fairly,” he told the demonstrators. Mr. Gandhi promised strong action against Mr. Tania’s attackers and the formation of a committee to study the issues faced by Indians from the northeast. Delhi’s chief minister, Arvind Kejriwal, arrived at Jantar Mantar on Tuesday and declared that he would ensure justice for the teenager. Mr. Kejriwal said that the inquiry he ordered last week would be completed in three to four weeks and that action would be taken against any police official found to be at fault. Speaking to reporters on Tuesday in Itanagar, the capital of Arunachal Pradesh, Marina Nido, Mr. Tania’s mother, said her son paid 10,000 rupees, or $160, to the shopkeepers as compensation for the damage to their property, settling the matter. Like Mr. Tania’s father, she said the police were at fault for bringing her son back to the area near the store, where she said he was violently beaten. Ms. Nido also recounted her experiences with Indians who made her feel like an outsider. In their home state of Arunachal Pradesh, she said, when government officials and businessmen from Delhi visited for work or vacation, they were welcomed and treated with respect. By contrast, Ms. Nido said, when she lived outside the northeast region, she was asked by other Indians,“Are you from China, Korea?” India’s national elections began April 7 and will continue on nine separate dates until May 12, with results expected to be announced on May 16. The vote is the world’s largest, with 814 million eligible voters set to choose 543 members of the lower house of Parliament. The other two seats will be appointed by the president. This election is widely considered to be India’s most consequential since 1977. India Ink will be moving to the World page of The New York Times. Read more… A memorial ceremony at the Imphal War Cemetery in Manipur to honor the soldiers who died during World War II.Read more… The newly elected prime minister reaches out to the public in a blog post about his first 30 days in office.Read more… Newborns whose mothers are unable to breastfeed are given stored breast milk to protect them from potentially life-threatening infection.Read more… In the final stage of a long decline, Hindustan Motors announced in May that it would suspend production of the Ambassador, a car that was once synonymous with style and status.Read more… This report on India from the journalists of The New York Times and a pool of talented writers in India and beyond provides unbiased, authoritative reporting on the country and its place in the world. India Ink also strives to be a virtual meeting point for discussion of this complex, fast-changing democracy – its politics, economy, culture and everyday life. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Science   Blazing Trails in Brain Science. Advertisement Advertisement Profiles in Science By BENEDICT CAREY FEB. 3, 2014 BETHESDA, Md. — The police arrived at the house just after breakfast, dressed in full riot gear, and set up a perimeter at the front and back. Not long after, animal rights marchers began filling the street: scores of people, young and old, yelling accusations of murder and abuse, invoking Hitler, as neighbors stepped out onto their porches and stared. It was 1997, in Decatur, Ga. The demonstrators had clashed with the police that week, at the Yerkes National Primate Research Center at nearby Emory University, but this time, they were paying a personal call — on the house of the center’s director, inside with his wife and two teenage children. “I think it affected the three of them more than it did me, honestly,” said Dr. Thomas R. Insel, shaking his head at the memory. “But the university insisted on moving all of us to a safe place for a few days, to an ‘undisclosed location.’ “I’ll say this. I learned that if you’re going to take a stand, you’re going to make some people really angry — so you’d better believe in what you’re doing, and believe it completely.” For the past 11 years, Dr. Insel, a 62-year-old brain scientist, has run an equally contentious but far more influential outfit: the National Institute of Mental Health, the world’s leading backer of behavioral health research. Advertisement The job comes with risk as well as power. Patient groups and scientists continually question the agency’s priorities, and politicians occasionally snipe at its decisions. Two previous directors resigned in the wake of inflammatory statements (one on marijuana laws, one comparing urban neighborhoods to jungles), and another stepped down after repeatedly objecting to White House decisions. Dr. Insel has not merely survived; he is the longest-serving director since Dr. Robert H. Felix, the agency’s founder, retired almost a half-century ago. His tenure stretches over three presidencies and, more important, coincides with a top-down overhaul in the substance and direction of behavioral science. The extent of this remodeling is not widely understood outside scientific circles nor universally appreciated within them. But in recent months, its author has begun to reveal his instincts publicly, in blog posts and speeches. Last summer, he questioned whether people with schizophrenia should remain indefinitely on antipsychotic medications — a shot at accepted medical wisdom. A few months earlier, he had called out psychiatry’s diagnostic encyclopedia, the D.S.M.-5, as “not scientifically valid,” weeks before a new edition was released. Psychiatrists were not happy, and they told him so. Days later, he issued a statement saying that the manual was the best “currently available,” if imperfect. For anyone with a psychiatric diagnosis, or a family member with one, Dr. Insel’s long, twisting career and the convictions it has fostered provide a guided tour through behavior science: where it has been, where it’s going and why. The story is neither predictable nor probable, at least by the standards of Washington officialdom. It is less a tale of perseverance than one of restless curiosity — of ascending the trail by straying off it, repeatedly and without approval. The Young Doctor The first time he walked away was from premedical studies. Dr. H. Herman Insel, an eye surgeon in Dayton, Ohio, and his wife, Ruth, a social worker, were determined that all four of their boys get a medical education, and the first three went fairly smoothly. The last one out of the house, the Eagle Scout who collected insects and snakes and filled the basement with aquariums, was ahead of the program, if anything. At the age of 15, Tom Insel had entered the prestigious six-year B.A.-M.D. program at Boston University. But two years in, the boy wanted out. He decided it was time to step off the treadmill and see the world. Advertisement “My father didn’t want me going anywhere, and I was too young to be drafted for Vietnam,” Dr. Insel said in a recent interview at his office here. “I told him, ‘O.K., so how about I go to Hanoi? They could use some help there.’ ” The two reached a compromise, and the son spent six months backpacking around the world, stopping to work in a tuberculosis clinic in Hong Kong and at a mission hospital in Bihar, India. The experiences brought him full circle, back to medicine and to Boston, where he completed the M.D. program in 1974. “I was sure I was going to be a doctor of global health or tropical medicine in some underdeveloped country,” he said. Instead, he found an untamed world closer to home: psychiatry, which in the 1970s was ruled by a cabal of Freudian theorists and lacked a scientific infrastructure. After a graduate course at Stanford, followed by an internship and residency in psychiatry, he landed a position in the mental health institute’s in-house research branch, known as the intramural program. There he embarked on another kind of walkabout, this time studying the effect of an early antidepressant drug in people with obsessive-compulsive disorder. In a series of studies, he and a senior colleague, Dr. Dennis Murphy, showed that the drug soothed people’s symptoms within weeks, much faster than standard psychotherapy. The results had the opposite effect on many old-school psychiatrists. “Obsessive-compulsive neurosis,” as it was known then, was a specialty of Freudian analysts, and here was some upstart barely out of school saying he’d discovered a better, faster form of treatment. Advertisement He wasn’t yet 30 years old. “I don’t think it helped that I still looked like I was 17,” Dr. Insel said. The pendulum has swung so far toward drug therapy in recent years that it is hard to recapture how disruptive those 1980s studies were. Dr. Insel’s work and that of many others, testing the effect of new medications, would turn the field away from long-term talking cures and increasingly toward medication and short-term behavior therapies rooted in the same kind of randomized, controlled trials conducted in other fields of medicine. (Today, psychiatrists often treat O.C.D. with short-term cognitive therapy, complemented by antidepressant medication.) Any young investigator at the forefront of such a shift was bound to feel a professional updraft, and Dr. Insel was soon fielding offers from universities trying to build a psychiatric research department. Advertisement At an age when most young scientists are scrambling for a foothold, a mentor and a viable project, his path was all but set. He and his wife, Deborah, a writer, had two young children and every reason to grab for longer-term stability. Instead, they passed. Again, Dr. Insel abandoned course in midstride, taking a year’s sabbatical to study basic neuroscience. “I just wanted to try something else,” he said. “I got bored, that’s really what it was.” The Biology of Love He also lost his job. In 1985, returning to the mental health institute after his year away, he began studying tiny mouselike rodents called voles in an effort to understand the biology of attachment. This project was a long way from O.C.D., and to many others in the field, it seemed like the brain-science equivalent of backpacking to Hanoi. “No one told me at the time that it was pointless to try to reduce a complex social behavior like pair bonding to neural biology, so I didn’t know any better,” Dr. Insel said. “I just assumed we could do it and started looking for the best model.” He settled on voles for a good reason. One species, the prairie vole, is monogamous; it forms long-term pair bonds after mating. Another, the montane vole, is polygamous; it mates and moves on. The two species are closely related, so the difference in their behavior might be rooted in some discrete neural process that could be isolated, Dr. Insel argued. In a series of studies in the late 1980s and early 1990s, his team showed just that: Injections of a protein called vasopressin induced monogamous bonding in male prairie voles even when the animals didn’t mate. Likewise, blocking the action of the protein prevented the post-mating bond that usually formed. Injections of the hormone oxytocin prompted similar bonding instincts in female prairie voles. In a paper published in the journal Nature in 1993, Dr. Insel’s group reported that vasopressin is “both necessary and sufficient for selective aggression and partner preference formation, two critical features of pair bonding in the monogamous prairie vole.” Advertisement The paper was widely reported, and again put the mental health institute in the vanguard of a new area of research. But the agency was changing emphasis, phasing out its research into social behaviors. Dr. Michael Brownstein, the scientific director at the time, politely instructed his young research star to find another project — or another job. (The two are now good friends.) He chose Door No. 2, and it took all of three months. Emory University was looking to replace the director of the Yerkes primate center, who was about to retire, and Dr. Insel was at the top of their list. He had already run a lab, as chief of the neurobiology division of the mental health institute, and his work with voles would diversify Yerkes’s portfolio, which then was focused on studying H.I.V. in primates. He packed up his family and his voles, and moved south. “Acclaimed Researcher to Head Yerkes Center,” read the headline in The Atlanta Journal-Constitution on Aug. 20, 1994, the day the hiring was announced. “All I know is I had to go out and buy my first tie,” is how Dr. Insel tells it. He quickly expanded rodent research at the center and also deepened his own work on the biology of attachment, with the help of an Emory postdoctoral student, Larry Young, who has since extended the research on his own. The work with voles effectively scotched the assumption that a complex behavior could not be reduced to brain biology. Oxytocin and vasopressin are now a focus of intense interest as possible modulators of social behaviors in other species, though the effects of such proteins are still a matter of debate. His necktie came in handy at Yerkes. Between the march on his home in Decatur and other crises, the “psychiatrist who became a bench scientist,” as he has described himself, took on yet another role: He became a public official. He was comfortable in front of audiences, relaxed with the news media, and willing to see at-home protests as part of the job, nothing to lose sleep over. The precociousness was long gone. By 2000, he had some well-tailored suits to go with his ties, a commanding view over his field, and some strong beliefs about how to improve its infrastructure. All of which made him “the natural choice” for the mental health institute’s director, in the words of Dr. Elias Zerhouni, then director of National Institutes of Health who hired him for the job in 2002, citing his “ability to communicate a compelling vision for mental health research, his outstanding scientific record, and his proven leadership skills.” The Path Ahead In one way, it was a homecoming, a return to Washington and to the National Institute of Mental Health, where he’d made a name for himself. In a more consequential sense, however, Dr. Insel’s arrival as director signaled yet another departure, this one far larger than just about anyone could have anticipated. Dr. Insel has sharply shifted the agency’s focus — to basic neuroscience and genetics, at the expense of the very type of behavioral research he himself had once done. That change has generated a mix of optimism and outrage. Advertisement “I met Tom when he came in, and my expectations were low,” said Dr. E. Fuller Torrey, of the Stanley Medical Research Institute, a nonprofit supporting research in schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, and a longtime critic of the mental health institute. “He was a bench scientist, and I frankly doubted that he had the political skills to be an effective director or had a strong commitment to serious mental illness. “I was wrong on both counts. I think he’s the best director we’ve had.” Others strongly disagree. “Instead of being an institute of mental health, he has made it almost exclusively a brain research institute,” Dr. Allen Frances, an emeritus professor of psychiatry at Duke and the author of the book “Saving Normal,” wrote in an email. “N.I.M.H. is betting the house on the long shot that neuroscience will come up with answers to help people with serious mental illness.” He added, “It does little or no psychosocial or health services research that might relieve the current suffering of patients.” Dr. Insel says the agency does in fact support some psychosocial research — testing new services for people with schizophrenia, for instance — but does not deny that its primary mission is biological. Still, he has generally been spared such sharp public criticism, perhaps because many have confused a reflexively earnest good nature with an easily compromising one. “He’s been able to use the bully pulpit without being a bully, without being offensive,” said Dr. Steven E. Hyman of the Broad Institute at M.I.T. and Harvard. Dr. Hyman was Dr. Insel’s predecessor as director of the mental health institute; the two share most scientific instincts and speak regularly. “It’s not something I was particularly good at,” he went on. “They kept giving me media training, and it never stuck.” That open-minded nature can mask two stubborn convictions. One is that the previous generation of biological research in psychiatry has been largely a disappointment, both in advancing basic science and in improving lives. Yes, the revolution in pharmacology (in which he played a role) gave doctors more drugs to use, allowing millions of people to reduce their symptoms. Yet the overall impact of this drug revolution on public health has been mixed, and decades of research on the drugs’ mechanisms — on serotonin, for example, the target of antidepressant drugs like Prozac — has taught scientists nothing about the causes of mental illness. The same is true of most research using “animal models,” in which scientists try to create psychiatric problems in animals and study them. Advertisement “We’ve had this huge increase in the use of all interventions, a 250 percent increase in use of antipsychotics, without any change in the morbidity or mortality in people with mental disorders; it hasn’t budged,” Dr. Insel said. “If that were the case for cancer, there’d be an outcry for more research, money and new priorities.” In a blog post in August, he questioned the wisdom of long-term drug treatment for people with schizophrenia, writing, “We need to ask whether in the long term some individuals with a history of psychosis may do better off medication.” The post became an overnight sensation among patient advocates who had been making the same case for decades. His second stubborn conviction is that the only way to build a real psychiatric science is from first principles — from genes and brain biology, as opposed to identifying symptom clusters. Some of the mental health institute’s largest outlays under Dr. Insel have been to support projects that, biologically speaking, are like mapping the ocean floor. One is the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium, a far-flung group of top research centers that share data and analysis, based at the lab of Dr. Patrick F. Sullivan at the University of North Carolina. The other is the Human Connectome Project, a $40 million, five-year program to build a baseline database for brain structure and activity using M.R.I. imaging. In April, when in a blog post Dr. Insel wrote that the D.S.M.-5, was “at best a dictionary” and lacked scientific validity, he wasn’t exaggerating for effect. He had to qualify his comments because he doesn’t yet have a replacement. But he is determined to remake psychiatric diagnosis entirely and has set up an alternative framework for doing so, called the Research Domain Criteria — RDoC, for short — to be built from the ground up, on genetic findings. “My philosophy is really based on humility,” he said. “I don’t think we know enough to fix either diagnostics or therapeutics. The future of psychiatry is clinical neuroscience, based on a much deeper understanding of the brain.” That future may feel too far away for many patients, as well as many scientists. But this is one path Dr. Insel is not likely to wander from, no matter who disapproves. A version of this article appears in print on February 4, 2014, on page D1 of the New York edition with the headline: Blazing Trails in Brain Science. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe See More » Go to Home Page »
Sports   Player Is Dismissed. Advertisement Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSFEB. 4, 2014 Georgia Tech Coach Brian Gregory said the sophomore guard Solomon Poole was dismissed from the team because of “conduct and accountability issues.” Poole had not played since Jan. 7 at Duke. Go to Home Page »
Technology   By the Numbers. A quick look at the hidden arithmetic behind politics, business, news and cultural events like Beatlemania and the Super Bowl.          Kim Jong-un Boasts of Nuclear Strides Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics Erdogan’s March to Autocracy in Turkey Best of Obama's Correspondents' Dinner Speech Coconut Cluster Granola So You Want to Do a Handstand? Kasich Above the Fray Cruz Responds to Trump’s Paternal Dig How Will Obama Spend His Retirement? What's a Fab Lab?
Books   Book Covers: Before and After. Five designers discuss their work on recent book covers: first concepts that didn’t make the final cut, and then the cover as published (and in this installment, one cover that was accepted on the first try). Eric White on the design for Andy Weir’s novel “The Martian” (Crown): “The goal was to create the feeling of being stuck in a sandstorm on Mars. This early sketch was close but felt static.” CreditEric White 1 of 10 New books include “Love Always Everywhere” and “There’s This Thing.”
Business   Profit Climbs 35% at HCA Holdings. Advertisement Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSFEB. 5, 2014 HCA Holdings, the largest hospital operator in the United States, said its net income grew 35 percent in the fourth quarter, and added that the health care overhaul should add to its results in 2014. HCA said adjusted earnings could grow as much as 4 percent in 2014 — 1 to 2 percent of that from the health care law. Net income increased to $424 million, or 92 cents a share, from $314 million, or 68 cents a share. Analysts expected net income of 86 cents a share and $8.83 billion in revenue, according to FactSet. A version of this brief appears in print on February 5, 2014, on page B2 of the New York edition with the headline: Profit Climbs 35% at HCA Holdings. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Food   Annisa. A golden warmth fills the dining room of Annisa in Greenwich Village, where the chef Anita Lo has been at work for almost 14 years. CreditEvan Sung for The New York Times 1 of 10 A second run for a Guyanese corner restaurant in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn.
Foreign   Protests over Creation of Telangana Disrupt 1st Day of 2014 Parliament Session. Advertisement   NEW DELHI — The Lok Sabha, the lower house of Parliament, spent a total of nearly one hour in session during its first day back from the winter break before protests by Andhra Pradesh lawmakers, who were upset over a plan to create the state of Telangana, forced an early adjournment. The session started smoothly enough at 11 a.m., with lawmakers standing silent as the speaker read out the names of former parliamentarians who had died. But soon afterward, the Andhra Pradesh lawmakers, whose state will be divided in two by the Telangana plan being pushed by the governing Congress Party, began yelling, “Jai Samaikya Andhra!” (Hail United Andhra) Even some members of the Congress Party who favor an undivided Andhra Pradesh joined in. Unable to cut through the cacophony, the Lok Sabha speaker, Meira Kumar, announced the adjournment of the house until noon. When Lok Sabha resumed proceedings at noon, in addition to the bickering over Telangana, opposition lawmakers began talking about Nido Tania, a student from Arunachal Pradesh who died after what some say was a racially motivated attack in New Delhi. Sushma Swaraj, a senior Parliament leader from the Bharatiya Janata Party, raised her voice above the din to criticize Arvind Kejriwal, the chief minister of Delhi, and Rahul Gandhi, the vice president of the Congress Party, for spending time with protesters in central Delhi rather than working on a plan to protect students in the capital. “I urge the government to create more student hostels in Delhi so that students from the northeast can live amicably with those from other states of the country,” said Ms. Swaraj. As the Andhra Pradesh lawmakers kept yelling, Ms. Kumar decided to end the session early at 12:30 p.m. The same raucous scenes played out in the Rajya Sabha, or the upper house of Parliament, as well. After beginning the session at 11 a.m., the Rajya Sabha adjourned after 40 minutes until 2 p.m. When the Rajya Sabha resumed its work, Kapil Sibal, the law minister, moved a bill that defines the role of state and central governments in quelling religious violence, officially putting the legislation on the agenda. But opposition lawmakers began shouting their objections, saying that the bill would infringe on the rights of state governments. The Rajya Sabha managed to stay open for business longer than its lower house counterpart, ending the day at 2:50 p.m. Before Parliament began, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh had held out hope that key bills could be passed by Feb. 21, when the session ends, although he did anticipate disruptions by opposition lawmakers. “Well, I think these are hiccups,” said Mr. Singh in front of Parliament. “I hope all sections of the House will have the wisdom to set aside these prejudices and create an atmosphere conducive to harmonious working of the House.” According to PRS Legislative Research, an independent agency based in New Delhi that tracks parliamentary proceedings, there are 39 bills pending in this session of Parliament, including six anticorruption measures and the Telangana bill. India’s national elections began April 7 and will continue on nine separate dates until May 12, with results expected to be announced on May 16. The vote is the world’s largest, with 814 million eligible voters set to choose 543 members of the lower house of Parliament. The other two seats will be appointed by the president. This election is widely considered to be India’s most consequential since 1977. India Ink will be moving to the World page of The New York Times. Read more… A memorial ceremony at the Imphal War Cemetery in Manipur to honor the soldiers who died during World War II.Read more… The newly elected prime minister reaches out to the public in a blog post about his first 30 days in office.Read more… Newborns whose mothers are unable to breastfeed are given stored breast milk to protect them from potentially life-threatening infection.Read more… In the final stage of a long decline, Hindustan Motors announced in May that it would suspend production of the Ambassador, a car that was once synonymous with style and status.Read more… This report on India from the journalists of The New York Times and a pool of talented writers in India and beyond provides unbiased, authoritative reporting on the country and its place in the world. India Ink also strives to be a virtual meeting point for discussion of this complex, fast-changing democracy – its politics, economy, culture and everyday life. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Health   The Workout. Get motivated and discover the fitness secrets and workout routines of Olympians, professional athletes and Broadway dancers.         Kim Jong-un Boasts of Nuclear Strides Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics Erdogan’s March to Autocracy in Turkey Best of Obama's Correspondents' Dinner Speech Coconut Cluster Granola So You Want to Do a Handstand? Kasich Above the Fray Cruz Responds to Trump’s Paternal Dig How Will Obama Spend His Retirement? What's a Fab Lab?
Movies   The Carpetbagger. Get behind the scenes of Hollywood’s awards season, with close-up looks at Oscar-nominated films and exclusive red-carpet access to the hottest actors, actresses and directors.          Kim Jong-un Boasts of Nuclear Strides Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics Erdogan’s March to Autocracy in Turkey Best of Obama's Correspondents' Dinner Speech Coconut Cluster Granola So You Want to Do a Handstand? Kasich Above the Fray Cruz Responds to Trump’s Paternal Dig How Will Obama Spend His Retirement? What's a Fab Lab?
Science   The Workout: Training to Bobsled Sign Up for the Running Email. Advertisement Chris Fogt is a U.S. Olympic Team bobsledder. He demonstrates some of the exercises in his workout, which is designed to improve the skills his sport requires. An inside look at fitness routines, by Anahad O’Connor. Being an Olympic bobsledder is a job that requires a precise balance of speed, muscle and weight. The athletes must explode off the starting line while pushing nearly 500 pounds of bobsled at full speed. They need to be strong enough for a powerful launch so the sled will reach speeds exceeding 90 miles an hour. But the athletes also need to be lean in order to lighten the load and wind resistance as they hunker down in the sled. To find out how bobsledders achieve this combination of power and speed, we asked Army Capt. Chris Fogt, a member of the four-man American bobsled team that will compete in Sochi, Russia, to show us the bobsled workout. Captain Fogt, 30, grew up in Georgia and Utah, and is a soldier athlete who served in Iraq and competed in the last Winter Olympics in Vancouver. We caught up with him at the Olympic Training Center in Lake Placid, N.Y., to talk about the bobsledder’s training routine, why beach muscles are not a good thing and the highs and sometimes-painful lows of a 90-miles-an-hour sport. Here’s an edited version of our conversation. How did you get into bobsledding? I was running track in college at Utah Valley University back in 2007 when I was recruited for bobsled. There’s not much glamor to it, but I love it because it’s a lot of fun. It’s fast, it’s a little bit dangerous, and we get to travel the world and race with the biggest, fastest athletes on the planet. What are the basics of a bobsledding workout? Bobsledding is a very physical sport. It requires a lot of speed and power. We have track guys that try out and some of them are good, but they’re not quite powerful enough. We have weightlifters come and try out, but they’re not fast enough. That’s because it’s a hybrid of the sports. We lift three to four times a week, we sprint twice a week, and we push the sled out here twice a week. Does bobsledding require some muscles more than others? It’s mostly legwork. So we do a lot of squats, a lot of power cleans, jump squats, box jumps, lunges – everything legs. We also do some upper body stuff but more just for fun and for overall body balance. What is your gym routine like? During the summertime when we’re in the off season and we’re not out in the freezing cold four or five hours a day, we usually lift three to four times a week. While we’re training and sliding at the same time, we usually lift twice a week. On Mondays we do the heavier, slower lifts, like squats, lunges, and bench press. On Wednesdays we do jumps, cleans and the more explosive lifts. And then we race Friday and Saturday. Are there exercises that all bobsledders have to do? Every athlete has their own program, but a few of the constants will be power cleans, squats, jumps, and deadlifts. Those three to four base exercises everyone does, whether you’re on the U.S. team, the British team, German team or Latvian team. Those are the lifts that build the most strength and power. So you focus on weightlifting, but you’re not exactly building beach muscles? No. We don’t do a whole lot of curls, shoulder type work, biceps or chest. When I was back in college, you’d do curls for half an hour a day trying to get large arms. Here, it’s just not functional for us. When you’re in the sled, you’re trying to get as low as you can, and if you have a huge upper body you become a wind sail. If you have huge massive shoulders and a big chest, the wind is hitting you and the sled is slowing down. Whereas if you’re leaner and smaller and flexible, you can get real low and that helps the air flow right over the sled. We want to be strong but lean and mean. Do you follow a special diet? Our diet is basically just to eat everything we want. I try and consume about 5,000 calories a day to maintain weight. So we eat a lot of food. I’m naturally a lot smaller than this. When I first started in the sport, I weighed about 175 pounds. Now I weigh about 215. So I’ve gained about 40 pounds doing the sport. All muscle? Most of it. Is there a specific weight you try to maintain? Most guys in our sport weigh between 215 and 235 pounds. That’s the sweet spot. If you get much larger than that, it’s hard to have the speed to push the bobsled. And if you’re smaller than that, you don’t have the power to push the bobsled. Are there certain foods you like to eat while training? We try to eat a lot of protein and a lot of carbs. To get my hunger and metabolism going, I eat a huge breakfast. And we have a large lunch and large dinner. At breakfast I eat two pancakes, three or four eggs, oatmeal, a glass of orange juice and some yogurt. If I just eat a bowl of cereal for breakfast, I’ll burn it instantly while I’m eating it. What is your role on the team? My job as a four-man brakeman is we get to the starting line and we have to push the sled. The sleds weigh between 400 and 500 pounds. You’re trying to move that sled from zero to as fast as you can very, very quickly. And that’s where the speed and power come into play. So we push for about 50 meters, then all four of us load in very closely together. What happens inside the sled? While we’re in the bobsled we try not to move as much as we can. That’s very hard to do because we hit around 4 to 5 G’s. But you want to be very fluid with the sled, almost like water in a glass. If the sled moves to the right, you slightly lean to the left, and you lean with it as it goes down the track. What would you compare the experience to? It’s kind of like a car wreck. Some trips are better than others. Some trips are very smooth and fast. Some trips you crash. At the last Olympics we were going about 92 miles an hour when we crashed on our heads. So it can be very violent and not very much fun. Is it difficult competing in frigid temperatures? That’s one of the unique things about our sport. During one of our last races, the temperature was minus five degrees, and we’ve had races where it’s been minus 30 before. So right before the race you’re trying to get warm and not pull any muscles. You have to learn how to feel light and fast while you’re freezing. It’s pretty tough but it’s something you learn to cope with. How do you manage being an Olympic athlete in the military? I joined the army in 2005 when I was in school, and I got into bobsledding in 2007. There’s a program called the Army World Class Athlete Program, and it allows me to do both. So after the games in 2010, I went to Iraq for a year with my unit and served out there. When these games are over, I’ll report to Fort Huachuca in Arizona on May 5. I get to wear the flag on both my uniforms, as a soldier and as a U.S. athlete. So it’s a great honor for me. Your health questions answered by Times journalists and experts. Your Questions | All » Get Well's Running email for practical tips, expert advice, exclusive content and a bit of motivation delivered to your inbox every week to help you on your running journey. Coming soon. How much do you know about the amazing things that go on in your gut? Take our quiz to find out about the creepy, crawly critters living in your home. What surface is the most friendly to the flu virus? Where’s the best place to stand when you’re talking to a sick person? How does sleep affect health, relationships and well-being? The “Reading the Mind in the Eyes Test” measures ability to understand others’ emotional states. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   What’s Chelsea Missing? A Striker It Let Go. Advertisement Advertisement By ROB HUGHESFEB. 5, 2014 LONDON — For once, José Mourinho let actions speak louder than his words. His Chelsea had dismantled the myth of Manchester City’s impregnability on its own turf. Chelsea ruthlessly found City’s weak spot. Where City had won all 11 of its previous home games this season, it was not even allowed to threaten. Where City had scored in every single home game since November 2010, it was made barren. And though the final score suggested that Chelsea had sneaked in a 1-0 victory, the fact that City’s goal frame rattled three times tells you the real story from Monday night at Etihad Stadium. Mourinho did, of course, have his say. He latched on to a journalist’s remark about the Premier League’s being a three-horse race for City, Chelsea and Arsenal from now until May. “Two horses, and a little horse,” Mourinho responded at Monday’s post-game press conference. “A little horse that still needs milk and to learn how to jump. A horse that next season can race.” The inference is that Mourinho wants people to underestimate Chelsea. He wants them to understand that Arsenal has been evolving under Arsène Wenger for almost two decades, and that Manchester City has so many players that it must still be the favorite. Advertisement And Chelsea? It has been reunited with him for only half a season. It is the “little” horse still feeding on milk. It will be in full stride in another year when, perhaps, he has the money to go out and buy the big beast he needs in attack. Mourinho is, to an extent, not bluffing. Chelsea, like City, has spent a billion dollars of imported money on imported star players over the years. But, unlike City, it has no reliable big-game winner, no striker who can absolutely put the fear of God into opponents. Monday’s winner in Manchester came from an unexpected source. It was a sweet half-volley struck low into the far corner of the net by the left foot of right back Branislav Ivanovic. “A beautiful goal,” conceded City’s coach Manuel Pellegrini ruefully in front of the TV cameras. But then Pellegrini, in his first season in England, spoke about the missing striker Sergio Agüero and the missing midfield power and reliability of Fernandinho. The City coach got to the nub of this defeat. Without Fernandinho at his side, Manchester’s big colossus, Yaya Touré had a fitful, unusually ineffective night in the engine room of the midfield. The stand-in midfielder, Martin Demichelis, was too brittle, too inconsistent on the ball and too easily snuffed out by Chelsea’s powerful athletes, Nemanja Matic and David Luiz. Matic, who has just returned from Benfica to Chelsea, and Luiz, who is a central defender converted to the middle ground, were relentless in their ball-winning. They allowed David Silva, the City creator, nothing. They competed, and won, the battle of force and concentration with Touré. And all around them there were performances of applied energy and sustained application. Gary Cahill, a rare Englishman on this English field, was magnificent in defense. Eden Hazard was the best, and the most industrious, winger on the field. Ramires and Willian, two Brazilians on Chelsea’s squad, were inexhaustible in their appetite for running with the ball. Advertisement All these men obey the basic tenet of Mourinho soccer. They run until tiredness enters their minds, and then they run some more. Forward, and back, forward and back, never shirking the effort that he demands — and it was this lack of energy, this sublimation of art to first be an artisan, that made Mourinho decide Juan Mata could be sold in January to Manchester United. A crowd favorite and Chelsea’s player of the year for two seasons in a row, Mata was allowed to leave for two reasons. One is that even Chelsea must sell players, and not just keep on buying them, because the clock is ticking on UEFA’s Financial Fair Play rule, which is supposed to determine that a club’s spending does not exceed its income. The other, and to Mourinho the omnipotent reason, is that team always comes before the man on his field. Mata is brilliant in creation, but not so much on defense. All the players in Chelsea’s dark blue on Monday were prepared to defend as their first priority, and attack when they could. Mourinho has flirted with rank hypocrisy this week by talking of other teams (meaning City) paying “dodgy” lip service to the UEFA’s financial accounting rule. He spoke patent nonsense because Chelsea and City are both teams owned by billionaires, the one Russian, the second from Abu Dhabi. They hire so many of the world’s talents that just three men among Monday’s 22 starters were English — City goalie Joe Hart and Chelsea central defenders Cahill and John Terry. All the rest, and many of their replacements, come and keep on coming from the global talent pool. And they come for transfer fees and wages that, no matter how the clubs accountants dress it up, exceed all the income they get from gate receipts, TV contracts and commercial deals. Roman Abramovich started this excessive spending at Chelsea a decade ago. The ruling family of Abu Dhabi began buying into Manchester City only in 2008. Advertisement And so City’s spending, not simply on stars but on laying down facilities and building a training academy, currently exceeds Chelsea’s. Measured on the field, City has the talents when all are healthy. Chelsea has the method and will open the vaults next season to buy the one player it lacks. It has no striker like Didier Drogba. The Ivorian, now playing his end game, will be back at Stamford Bridge next month when he turns 36. But after scoring 100 goals in Chelsea blue, he returns in the colors of Galatasaray, the Istanbul team he now plays for. Chelsea must find another Drogba, if any exists, to finish off the chances the Mourinho system works so hard to forge. A version of this article appears in print on February 5, 2014, in The International New York Times. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Travel   A Weekend in Hungary, Chosen at Random. Advertisement Advertisement Seth Kugel FRUGAL TRAVELER FEB. 5, 2014 Was I ferfi or noi? It was just before dawn on a wintry Saturday, and I had hopped off the Bucharest-to-Budapest overnight train in a place called Mezobereny. The town of almost 11,000 in the eastern Hungarian plains was my destination for the weekend, but I had chosen it quite at random, with a simple goal: to find out what was there. I knew what was not there: any notable tourist attraction, a hotel or restaurant with even a single TripAdvisor review, a concentration of English speakers. But first I had to use the bathroom, and that was presenting a problem, since the stick-figure-free signs read “FERFI WC” and “NOI WC.” I gave a befuddled look to the only other soul in the waiting room, a bundled-up elderly woman. She pointed. Ferfi it was. On my way back to Budapest from more tourist-friendly Transylvania, I had decided to spend my final weekend in a place utterly unknown to me — and, it seemed to any tourists — just to see what would happen. I’d shown up with similar intentions in other places — a weeklong stop in a small town in Mexico, a day in a pistachio-farming village in Turkey, two days in a small Chinese city along the Yangtze. But those were easier missions for various reasons: I speak Spanish, the Turkish are notoriously hospitable to strangers, and in China, well, as the only foreigner in town, lots of people wanted to meet me (or at least trail me at a safe distance). Small-town Hungary seemed a bigger challenge: Hungarians are supposedly reserved and formal; I certainly don’t speak their Finno-Ugric tongue; and my looks don’t attract attention. (As usual, I would not reveal I was a journalist.) Advertisement So the last thing I expected when I stepped out of the station, on the outskirts of town, was a big touristy map of the town, with attractions numbered and indexed. Then again, it was in three languages, none of which I speak: Hungarian, German and oddly enough, a Slavic language I did not recognize. I’d have to get to the bottom of that, but more important right now, I spotted a “szallo,” which I knew meant hotel, in the center of town. Off I trudged, in the predawn half-light, past a Cargill warehouse and a scrap metal heap, through pleasant residential neighborhoods and finally into the center of town. It looked promising. There were a few restaurants, a few stores, an ornate old town hall and, even lovelier, a more subdued neo-Classical building, the Bereny Szallo. I headed through the arched doorway, only to find a hallway without a reception desk. I did, however, find two young men drinking beers, a somewhat notable activity considering it was not yet 7 a.m. They spoke English, and sought out an employee who helped me arrange a room; the cost per night was 3,500 forints, an absurdly low $14.75 at 236 forints to the dollar. To my surprise, the men were visitors like me. “We’re from Budapest,” one said. “We’re here to go to a pig killing.” I had been in town a half-hour, and already I was invited to a pig killing? I couldn’t believe my luck, and of course, I asked if I might tag along. “The pig’s already dead,” one said, and I felt as if I was getting the brushoff. Sure enough, when I wheeled my luggage around the corner for the staff to store, they took off. A bit depressed at the missed opportunity, I headed across the street to a small bakery, where I drowned my sorrows with a coffee and a kakaos csiga, a snail-shaped chocolate pastry that cost 140 forints. I then set off to wander. (And if I happened to run across a certain pig-killing, all the better.) The town turned out to be a subtle charmer. Tidy houses — some looking a century old or more — lined streets that were quiet but for the occasional fenced-in dog. A notable number of gray-haired locals were out on bicycles, which, even on a drizzly day, were more common than cars. FOR SOME REASON, I felt euphoric. Perhaps it the utter randomness of where I was, or perhaps it was because I had literally no idea what I would find on the next block. The smallest discoveries in an unknown place can match the thrill of visiting well-known attractions — Versailles, the Grand Canyon — that you knew were coming and you’d read all about. Advertisement My first find was a small industrial building on an otherwise residential block, metal barrels lined up in front. I noted a word stenciled on a concrete wall outside: SZESZFOZDE. Tapping it into Google Translate, I got just about the best result I could imagine: Distillery. I had the phone pronounce it for me; the result was something like SUHSS-feuz-duh. Good enough. “Szeszfozde?” I said to two men standing outside the building. They nodded. They did not speak English. I pointed to my camera, I pointed inside, they waved me in. The barrels were full of fermenting grape juice; they were producing the Hungarian fruit brandy known as palinka. The older man showed me the tangle of pipes and copper stills and other contraptions. Using my phone to translate, I asked a few questions. How much did they produce? (Three hundred liters a day.) Why were they working Saturday? (Shrugs.) Could I buy some? (No.) “They must either sell it wholesale, or customers have to bring empty bottles,” I wrote in my notebook. I would turn out to be wrong. After taking shelter from the rain at a 24-hour fast-food stand, where I ate a burger with a guy named Gabor who had worked as a housekeeper for a year or so in Richmond, Va., I looped back downtown. That’s where I found the Orlai Petrics Soma Kulturalis Kozpont Muzealis Gyujtemenye, a local museum housed in an expansive old home near the town hall. I headed in, startling a young, wispy-bearded man named Zsolt, who was not expecting any visitors. (I was the first in three weeks, he said, and possibly the first foreigner ever.) Waiving the entrance fee, he took me on a tour, past the embroidery work of the town’s own Kiszely Janosne and a crazy old contraption of gears and chains and pedals to carbonate water. Advertisement More interesting were rooms full of colorful traditional furniture and household goods. It was traditional Slovak design, he said. Slovak? He then revealed the mystery of the trilingual sign: Mezobereny had been destroyed several times over the years; during its most recent rebirth, in the 18th and 19th centuries, a mix of Hungarians, Germans and Slovaks were brought in to repopulate it. Also in the museum was a memorial to the Jews of Mezobereny who had been taken away (and presumably killed) during World War II. Zsolt told me he didn’t know of any Jews living in town these days. It was a reminder that even small towns off the tourist radar can have fascinating, and sometimes difficult histories. MY HOTEL ROOM would be ready by now, and after settling in with a quick nap, I headed for what I figured would be an easy way to meet people: Roman Catholic Mass. Advertisement In the entryway to the church, I joined a small group that had congregated to chat: two older women, the priest and a young blond woman named Eszter, who briefly helped translate and then disappeared upstairs. Turned out she was the organist. Attendance was sparse, and mostly in the non-English-speaking, elderly woman demographic. But one family group stood out: a middle-aged couple and three young adults. “We heard about you!” the father told me. “You’re looking for accommodations!” That was the misinterpretation of the pre-Mass chat circle, but they quickly grasped what I was doing in town. When I told them about my experience in the szeszfozde, the son, Balazs Doczy (who attends an English-language university in Budapest) said his godfather, Istvan Csavas, made the best palinka in town. “I’m thinking we should go knock on his door and see if he has some for you to try,” he said. Funny, I was thinking that too. We walked a couple of blocks to his house, and his wife, Zsuzsi, answered, looking a bit tired. There was a flurry of conversation in Hungarian, and Balazs translated for her: “She says to pardon her appearance. She was at a pig-killing today.” Could there have been two pig-killings the same day? Possibly, but not this time: I learned that the young, beer-swilling men from Budapest were part of a group of doctors who had been invited out for the event. Istvan was not there, but we were able to sample his palinka, in elegant shot glasses with teacup-style handles. The pear variety was my favorite, smooth and rich and redolent of fruit; it knocked the socks off some commercial palinka I had tried the week before in Budapest. And I was welcome back the next day to buy some. After downing the palinka, I needed some food in my stomach. Everyone I had met had recommended the same restaurant, Topart Vendeglo. Though it was a pleasant place — more banquet hall than restaurant in appearance — I had a rather unmemorable dinner of pork croquettes (a house specialty) and vegetable soup with noodles that looked like maggots (but tasted fine). It turned out that the restaurant was also a guesthouse with three upstairs rooms, each with a themed décor: German, Hungarian and Slovak. Dinner was 3,100 forints, bringing my total for the day (including lodging) to about $32. Small towns were not only fascinating, they were cheap. Balazs and family had suggested that I take the bus the next day to Gyula, a town 20 miles away, to try out its relatively famous bathhouse; I did, and it was fine, but I was eager to get back and buy my palinka. When I showed up, Istvan was expecting me; both he and Zsuzsi were very affable despite the language gap. Soon, their English-speaking son, also named Istvan, arrived with his wife and young daughter, and things picked up, with his translations and freely poured palinka as conversational lubricants. I answered Zsuzsi’s questions about American education (she was a retired schoolteacher) and offered my own about how they got outside news before the fall of Communism. (The Voice of America, among other sources.) They also resolved one final mystery for me. Istvan didn’t distill the palinka himself; he brought the fermented fruit juice to the very szeszfozde I had visited for distillation (explaining why I had come away empty-handed). Advertisement Two hours later, I had new friends, two bottles of palinka to go (2,500 forints each), and a rapidly encroaching headache. Before I left, they invited me to ... a Monday morning pig killing. I was due on the 5:30 a.m. to Budapest and had a flight to catch. Perhaps the next time I was in Mezobereny. An earlier version of this article misspelled the given name of an organist at a Roman Catholic church in Mezobereny. She is Eszter, not Ester. It also misspelled the given name of a retired schoolteacher who hosted the author at her home. She is Zsuzsi, not Szussi. Follow Seth on his frugal adventures via Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. See More » Go to Home Page »
Washington   How Did Your Recent Peace Corps Service Affect Your Life?. Advertisement Advertisement By THE NEW YORK TIMESFEB. 5, 2014 Serving in the Peace Corps can be both challenging and rewarding. Former Peace Corps volunteers often have good stories to tell — about their experiences in the field, what they learned and how those experiences shaped their lives after their service ended. Times journalists are writing about recent Peace Corps volunteers. If you have served in the Peace Corps in the past 10 years, please tell us about your experience by answering the questions below. Your comments and contact information will not be published, but a reporter or editor from The Times may follow up with you directly to learn more about your story. If you cannot see the form below, it is also available at this website. By submitting to us, you are promising that the content is original, doesn’t plagiarize from anyone or infringe a copyright or trademark, doesn’t violate anybody’s rights and isn’t libelous or otherwise unlawful or misleading. You are agreeing that we can use your submission in all manner and media of The New York Times and that we shall have the right to authorize third parties to do so. And you agree to the rules of our Member Agreement. Go to Home Page »
Business   The Olympics: A Costly Feel-Good Moment. Advertisement Advertisement By DAVID GILLEN and CHANNON HODGEFEB. 6, 2014 The 2014 Olympics in Sochi are estimated to be the most expensive yet. While host cities hope the games will bring in a profit, they have more often than not created long-term economic burdens. Even before the Olympic torch reached Sochi on Wednesday — after a 39,000-mile journey, the longest in the history of the Games — another Olympic record had already been shattered: the cost of the Games. The 2014 Winter Games, which open in the Russian city on Friday, will be the most expensive Olympics of all time. The estimated price tag is more than $50 billion, or approximately $510 million for each event. Hosting the Games is never cheap, but the bill keeps climbing as cities try to outbid one another for a chance to throw an Olympic-size party. To put Sochi in context, consider that in 1984, the Summer Games in Los Angeles cost about $546 million, or $1.2 billion in today’s dollars. The Games are often billed as a boon for the host, a two-week bonanza of tourism and valuable television time. But do host countries really benefit economically? Advertisement It depends — but don’t count on it. Only a handful of Games (for instance, Los Angeles, in 1984; Barcelona, in 1992; and Atlanta, in 1996) have ended up in the black. And if you count all of the costs related to the Games, it is doubtful the Olympics ever turn out to be a major economic success, said Victor Matheson, who has studied the economics of big events like the Olympics and the World Cup. While tourism during the Olympics may help offset the expense for some cities, a spike in arrivals is not guaranteed. Beijing actually saw a drop in hotel bookings during its Summer Games in 2008. In pure economic terms, the best hope for Russia is that Sochi’s new sports venues, roads and hotels will turn the city into a tourist destination. “One of the things you’re always hoping is that you’ll have some long-term impact,” said Mr. Matheson, a professor of economics at the College of the Holy Cross. “And there had better be some sort of legacy, because if you’re going to spend $50 billion on the Olympics, like Russia, there’s no way you can possibly get that back in the two weeks that they are going on.” So why host? The simplest answer may be this: It makes people feel good. “The Olympics may not make us rich,” Mr. Matheson said, “but they make us happy.” Go to Home Page »
Energy   Seeking Balance Between Environment and Economy. Advertisement Advertisement Green Column By STANLEY REED FEB. 5, 2014 LONDON — Can the European Union’s environmental aspirations coexist with industrialists like Lakshmi Mittal, the steel mogul? That question is very much influencing the debate about how Europe should go about combating climate change in the future. In January, the European Commission, the executive body of the 28-nation Union, published new proposals for reducing greenhouse gas emissions through 2030. The major elements of these proposals — a new target to reduce greenhouse gases by 40 percent from 1990 levels, as well as Europe-wide goals for renewable energy and measures to bolster flagging prices on Europe’s carbon-trading market — are not as ambitious as some environmentalists would have liked. But they are still likely to increase energy costs and, thus, competitive pressures on heavy industry. One reason that the commission did not push for higher goals is that companies like ArcelorMittal, the Luxembourg-based steel giant that Mr. Mittal heads, had already started to warn that Europe’s energy and environmental policies were threatening jobs and investment. ArcelorMittal employs about 100,000 people in Europe, many of them in sprawling mills that produce substantial amounts of pollution. At this point, the targets are just proposals. They may not survive in their present form, and it will probably be many months before they become binding. Advertisement What is sure is that the stage is now set for an intense lobbying tug of war between those who say that Europe must continue to lead the world on climate change and others who say that Europe needs to rethink its priorities. Much will be on the line, including Europe’s credibility on climate change and the thorny question of whether there is still a role in Europe for energy-intensive businesses like ArcelorMittal. The International Energy Agency forecasts that energy-intensive exporters on the Continent will lose about a third their global market share over the next couple of decades. Energy costs are a big issue for European industrialists. The rule of thumb is that natural gas, a major industrial fuel, is now twice as expensive in Europe as in the United States, contributing to higher electric power costs. In an interview, Robrecht Himpe, a top executive in ArcelorMittal’s European steel business, said the company would save $1 billion annually if its European mills could somehow be powered by American energy. Mr. Himpe estimated that the European proposals, if implemented, would eventually add about 25 percent to the energy costs of producing steel, which he said were now about 126 euros, or about $170, per metric ton for steel that sells for about ¤440 per ton. Mr. Himpe also said after substantial investments by Arcelor to reduce its emissions, there was little more it could do. Under the recommendations, the price of pumping out one metric ton of carbon in Europe would rise from ¤6 a ton currently to about ¤70 a ton by 2030, according to a study by ThomsonReuters Point Carbon, a research firm based in Oslo. Mr. Himpe said that if the European Commission did not buffer these increases on steel and other big energy users, it would “risk damaging these industries, which are a motor for the European Union’s economic recovery.” He also said that unless Europe adopted more industry-friendly policies, it would be difficult for companies like ArcelorMittal to make the long-term investments that they need to keep their plants going. Advertisement Does it matter if heavy industry gradually fades away in Europe? Georg Zachmann, an analyst focused on energy and climate issues at Bruegel, a Brussels-based research organization, does not think so. “If you have high electricity prices, you lose energy-intensive industries, but at the same time the economy rebalances by increasing competitiveness in other products,” he said. Disagreement about energy policies extends to the top levels of the European Commission. A few days after the Commission published its proposals, Europe’s top energy official, Günther Oettinger, who helped draft the proposals, suggested that Europe needed to think differently about itself. The European Union now accounts for about 11 percent of global carbon emissions, and that percentage will drop by more than half by 2030, Mr. Oettinger told a business group. “To think that with 4.5 percent of global emissions you can save the world is not realistic; it is arrogant or is stupid,” he said. But European politicians have an easier time setting environmental targets than nurturing economic growth. In the mid-2000s, the European Union adopted binding targets for emissions reductions and for the use renewable energy sources that made the Continent the darling of the environmental movement. The problem is that much of the rest of the world did not follow. Europe will very likely succeed in meeting or surpassing its original goal of a 20 percent reduction in emissions from 1990 levels by 2020, but these policies may have encouraged investment and employment to shift elsewhere. Recent European Commission studies have shown that Europe’s share of global foreign direct investment fell to 16.8 percent in 2012 from 30 percent in 2008. In roughly the same period, Europe lost 3.5 million manufacturing jobs. With the new proposals, Europe may be setting emission reduction targets without a full assessment of what sort of economy it wants to have and how it will get there. “This is another set of environmental targets that is not being reconciled with broader energy issues in Europe,” said Fabien Roques, an analyst in Paris with the consulting firm Compass Lexecon. “How does this square with other objectives like competitiveness, keeping the lights on and power market design?” The key is for Europe to persuade countries like the United States and China to adopt similar policies. There may be more hope of that happening: Many businesses, including some oil companies, are preparing for a global policy shift that would be more in line with what Europe is pursuing. But until that change happens, companies like ArcelorMittal may be endangered species in Europe. An earlier version of this article misstated a target in new European Commission proposals to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The proposals aim to reduce greenhouse gases by 40 percent from 1990 levels — not from 2020 levels — through 2030. Go to Home Page »
Fashion   Fall 2014 Show Calendar. Advertisement Advertisement By THE NEW YORK TIMESFEB. 5, 2014  Thursday Feb. 13 2014: 10 a.m. Ralph Lauren: St. John Center Studios, 560 Washington Street 1 p.m. J. Mendel: The Theater, Lincoln Center 2 p.m. Calvin Klein Collection: Spring Studios, 50 Varick Street 8 p.m. Marc Jacobs: 69th Regiment Armory, 68 Lexington Avenue Past shows: Thursday, Feb. 6: 10 a.m. BCBG Max Azria 10 a.m. Visvim 11 a.m. Richard Chai 12 p.m. Creatures of the Wind 1 p.m. Duckie Brown 3 p.m. Costello Tagliapietra 4 p.m. Tome 6 p.m. Odd 7 p.m. Todd Snyder 8 p.m. Vince Friday, Feb. 7: 10 a.m. Peter Som 12 p.m. Tanya Taylor 1 p.m. Jason Wu 3 p.m. Cushnie et Ochs 4 p.m. Nonoo 5 p.m. Rag & Bone Advertisement 6 p.m. Nicole Miller 7 p.m. Helmut Lang 8 p.m. Suno 8 p.m. N. Hoolywood Saturday, Feb. 8: 10 a.m. Lacoste 12 p.m. Prabal Gurung 1 p.m. Rebecca Taylor 1 p.m. Ostwald Helgason 2 p.m. Hervé Léger by Max Azria 4 p.m. Christian Siriano 4 p.m. VPL 5 p.m. Altuzarra 6 p.m. Monique Lhuillier 6:30 p.m. Tibi 7 p.m. Jonathan Simkhai 8:30 p.m. Alexander Wang Sunday, Feb. 9: 10 a.m. Victoria Beckham 11 a.m. Yigal Azrouël 11 a.m. Public School 11 a.m. Delpozo 12 p.m. Derek Lam 12 p.m. Hood by Air 1 p.m. DKNY 2 p.m. Tracy Reese 3 p.m. Thakoon 4 p.m. Band of Outsiders 5 p.m. Diane von Furstenberg 6 p.m. Edun 7 p.m. Highland 8 p.m. Opening Ceremony 8 p.m. Ralph Rucci Monday, Feb. 10: 10 a.m. Carolina Herrera 11 a.m. Tommy Hilfiger 12 p.m. Theory 12:30 p.m. Ovadia & Sons 1 p.m. Ohne Titel 2 p.m. Milly by Michelle Smith 3 p.m. 3.1 Phillip Lim 5 p.m. Thom Browne 6 p.m. Patrik Ervell 6 p.m. Zero & Maria Cornejo 7 p.m. Zac Posen Advertisement 7 p.m. Billy Reid 8 p.m. Donna Karan Tuesday, Feb. 11: 9 a.m. Tory Burch 9:30 a.m. J.Crew 10 a.m. Badgley Mischka 11 a.m. Vera Wang 12 p.m. Mark McNairy New Amsterdam 12 p.m. Rodarte 1 p.m. Diesel Black Gold 4 p.m. Marc by Marc Jacobs 5 p.m. Sophie Theallet 5:30 p.m. Elie Tahari 6:30 p.m. Oscar de la Renta 7 p.m. En Noir 8 p.m. Narciso Rodriguez Wednesday, Feb. 12: 10 a.m. Michael Kors 11 a.m. Nanette Lepore 1 p.m. Jeremy Scott 2 p.m. Hugo Boss 4 p.m. Reed Krakoff 5 p.m. Marchesa 6 p.m. Anna Sui 6:30 p.m. Elizabeth and James 8 p.m. Proenza Schouler 8 p.m. Cynthia Rowley An earlier version of this article included an incorrect location for the Elie Tahari show.  It will be held at 510 Fifth Avenue. Go to Home Page »
Foreign   In Our Pages: February 7. Advertisement   LONDON — A ban on ‘‘Love,’’ an American parlor game similar to monopoly and parchesi, in which the Archbishop of Canterbury personifies an obstacle and cards marked ‘‘Wallis and Edward’’ give their holders immediate victory, was asked, in the House Of Commons. Harry Day, Labor M.P. of Southwark, questioned Home Secretary Sir Samuel Hoare whether his attention had been drawn to the game which ‘‘ridicules prominent English personages, including incidents relating to the British Crown, and asked whether he would prohibit circulation of the game in England. 1964: Cuba Cuts Water to U.S. Base WASHINGTON — The Cuban government today [Feb. 6] told the United States that it has cut off water to the Guantanamo Bay Naval base in retaliation for the arrest of 36 Cuban fishermen last Sunday. A note delivered to the State Department through the Swiss Embassy said: ‘‘water service to Guantanamo Bay has been suspended and the suspension will continue until the Cuban fishermen are released. The Cuban government has no obligation to supply water to the naval base under any international treaty, and has been doing so only for the sake of not increasing tension between the two countries,’’ the note said.  This blog will share highlights and curiosities from The International Herald Tribune's storied reportage. While we will share coverage of historic events — the world wars, the women's suffrage movement, the great expeditions — we will also republish glimpses of less earth-shaking moments and the ephemera of daily life. The same stories that caught the eyes of our generations of editors now offer us insight into the lives and interests of generations of Trib readers. Read more » From the International Herald Tribune archives: The Vichy government limits menus in 1941.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: A Nigerian officer at war sends a dispatch in 1916. Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: Germany establishes a naval repair shop 500 miles from South America in 1941.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: Prince Victor Napoleon gives a treatise on French politics in 1891.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: British troops attack Irak forces in 1941.Read more… Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Home   A Place to Park Himself. Advertisement Advertisement On Location By NICK AMIES FEB. 5, 2014 James van der Velden wanted something out of the ordinary in a home. But not in the conventional sense. He wasn’t interested, for example, in any of the beautiful 17th-century townhouses this city is known for. “I had been looking for an extraordinary property for quite some time,” said Mr. Van der Velden, 29, “when I came across this garage.” An abandoned commercial building from the 1950s, it wasn’t what most people would consider special, or even particularly interesting. And it needed a lot of work. But Mr. Van der Velden is an architect and interior designer, so that was fine with him. “The moment I walked into the garage for the first time, I had an idea of what I wanted to do,” he said. “So the design process went quite quickly.” After buying the building in late 2012 for a little over $600,000, he set about turning the 1,450-square-foot space into his idea of a home. And nearly a year later, with the $200,000 renovation complete, he moved in. It still looks more or less the same from the outside. But behind the roll-down garage door, and past a small parking space, there is now a floor-to-ceiling wall of glass and steel. Step through the double doors and you’ll find a modern, black-and-white kitchen. A rustic wood table that Mr. Van der Velden designed runs along the center of the room, with two huge industrial lights suspended over it — a homage, he said, to the history of the space. The living area beyond is double-height, with a glass atrium that brings light into the space. More glass-and-steel walls surround a central courtyard open to the elements, where there is a garden with potted plants. (When it rains, water flows to a central drainage system.) “The garage was one big, open space, so we had to make all the walls to create the rooms,” Mr. Van der Velden said. Even so, he added: “The biggest job was taking a part out of the roof to create the inside garden. But this was a very important feature for me: to have this open interior space.” Advertisement On the other side of the garden are two bedrooms: a guest room with a small bathroom and the master bedroom suite, which is dominated by a motorcycle perched on top of the shelves opposite the bed. The motorcycle, like many of the furnishings here, is vintage. “Nearly everything in my home is bought at Parisian flea markets or through online auctions,” he said. “I wanted a place where I could showcase my collections. Like a museum, but where people aren’t afraid to touch things.” Unlike a museum, however, the space that Mr. Van der Velden calls his “little oasis” doesn’t advertise its presence from the street. And visitors, he said, are often visibly taken aback. “I never get bored by the look of surprise I see on the faces of guests when I open the garage door.” A version of this article appears in print on February 6, 2014, on page D4 of the New York edition with the headline: A Place to Park Himself. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe See More » Go to Home Page »
Movies   This Week’s Movies. The ultimate film lover’s guide: The Times critics A.O. Scott, Manohla Dargis and Stephen Holden offer their picks for the week’s best movies, from blockbusters to hidden gems.          Kim Jong-un Boasts of Nuclear Strides Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics Erdogan’s March to Autocracy in Turkey Best of Obama's Correspondents' Dinner Speech Coconut Cluster Granola So You Want to Do a Handstand? Kasich Above the Fray Cruz Responds to Trump’s Paternal Dig How Will Obama Spend His Retirement? What's a Fab Lab?
Science   Living With Cancer: An Artist’s View Sign Up for the Running Email. Advertisement  Susan Gubar writes about life with ovarian cancer.  Every time I sign a consent form, I wonder how informed I really am. Do physicians — can physicians— convey the consequences of their treatments to cancer patients? Or is this where artists step in? A few years before the Canadian painter Robert Pope died in 1992, he dealt with an aggressive form of Hodgkin’s disease by undergoing a succession of standard treatments and by creating evocative canvases about the fraught experiences of cancer patients. Social realism meets surrealism in large paintings that portray the loneliness of sick men and women within the sterility of contemporary hospitals. Pope’s works —reproduced in the book “Illness & Healing” — ask us to think about blood sacrifice: about patients as well as caretakers reenacting archaic, fearful rituals in technologically advanced settings. Take, for example, his painting “Radiation,” in which a man lies alone on a narrow plank beneath a huge machine directing rays at his abdomen. The artist explains that “the red lasers which are used for positioning suggest a Christian cross, the table the man lies on is like an altar, he is covered with a white shroud, the machine hovers above him like an idol or faceless god that must be propitiated with bodily sacrifices.” Holding still in a black void, the marked man is caught in the beamed cross-hairs. He has to expose himself to a dreaded otherness that he cannot possibly understand and that all others flee. Will its invisible powers heal or harm him? In another painting, “Chemotherapy,” a turbaned woman lying on her side pulls up a sheet to cover herself. Beneath her, in the foreground, a disproportionately large syringe of Adriamycin looms. The chemical is red, like life-giving blood and the Red Cross, but also like an alarming stop sign or the inferno of its “red devil” nickname. The knot on her turban parallels the knot of her clenched knuckles, all imbued with the purple pigment called “caput mortuum” (which looks like dried blood and means “dead head”). Does the patient shrink from a drug that will debilitate her or accept its curative capacities? Such ambiguous images address the isolation of treatment. In paintings that include other figures, the perspective generally remains that of the patient in the hospital bed — again prone, but sometimes without a head. For we view the scene from the patient’s perspective, as if we were he. From his vantage, white-coated physicians tower over him, as do most visitors. In a self-portrait with Robert Pope’s doctor, the physical intimacy of the standing physician with the seated patient is meant to convey the relationship between “priest and layperson.” Next to a bedside picture of Jesus in another work, Mr. Pope draws a tray of syringes to suggest that “faith in science has replaced faith in religion.” Even when the artist’s figures are upright and vertical and entwined, they are riven on the stake. In the six-foot high “Hug,” the clasping patient and caregiver are divided — here by the IV rod that sunders the couple “like a dagger,” in the artist’s words. Although the man and woman encircle each other in their embrace, they are cleaved by the cross of the IV pole, holding high its bag of solutions. The intravenous tubes undulating around the pole form the spiral figure of infinity, although in some drafts the tubes look serpentine. Will the loving couple be destroyed by venomous toxins or sustained in the continuum of life and death? In the cancer dance, patient and caregiver remain indistinguishable since both are entangled in the paraphernalia of treatment. Though we accept ambiguity in art, it is harder to accept in science, harder still in medicine. Robert Pope’s work reminds us that often patients and caregivers cannot fathom what we sign up for. Even when physicians try to communicate the consequences of their prescriptions, patients need to make a leap of faith. Mr. Pope’s paintings make me wonder: Is cancer treatment a form of religion, a means of transformation that involves its own rituals, trials, high priests, sacraments, vestments and bodily signs for people in need of a miracle and convinced that we have to be stripped of everything before we can be reborn? In “Stations of the Heart,” a memoir about his son’s death from metastatic melanoma, the theologian Richard Lischer writes, “The religion of cancer treatment holds out the carrot of survival. It confuses the prolongation of life with salvation.” Do chemotherapy and radiation endanger more precious forms of redemption: the wholeness of the human spirit, connectedness, and compassion? Susan Gubar is a distinguished emerita professor of English at Indiana University and the author of “Memoir of a Debulked Woman,” which explores her experience with ovarian cancer. Your health questions answered by Times journalists and experts. Your Questions | All » Get Well's Running email for practical tips, expert advice, exclusive content and a bit of motivation delivered to your inbox every week to help you on your running journey. Coming soon. How much do you know about the amazing things that go on in your gut? Take our quiz to find out about the creepy, crawly critters living in your home. What surface is the most friendly to the flu virus? Where’s the best place to stand when you’re talking to a sick person? How does sleep affect health, relationships and well-being? The “Reading the Mind in the Eyes Test” measures ability to understand others’ emotional states. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   . Produced by Catherine Spangler, Bedel Saget, Graham Roberts, Jason Drakeford, Larry Buchanan, John Branch, Shan Carter, Alexandra Garcia, Mike Bostock and Tom Giratikanon Narration by Zena Barakat; Post Production by Ben Laffin; Photograph by Jim Wilson Additional video: Corey Koniniec, Gabe L’Heureux and Justin Eeles Sources: Mark McMorris, Canadian National Slopestyle Team; Chris Witwicki, Canadian National Slopestyle Team Coach; Dr. Ruben Andrist, Physicist at the Santa Fe Institute; Footage courtesy of Burton Snowboards; Dew Tour/Alli Sports; APM (music) Published: Feb. 7, 2014
Business   Entering the Era of Private and Semi-Anonymous Apps. Advertisement Today’s Web-enabled gadgets should come with a digital Miranda warning. “Anything you say or do online, from a status update to a selfie, can and will be used as evidence against you on the Internet.” Over the past couple of years, it has become clear that everything we do online is somehow being tracked and tied back to our offline identity. Each update, Fav, Like or comment we make lives on in perpetuity. It’s pretty hard to avoid this  — just ask Anthony Weiner. But a slew of new apps — including Wut, Secret, Confide, Popcorn and Telegram — that have come out in recent months are offering hope to the Anthony Weiners of the world, and to the rest of us, too. They are intended to let users either talk secretly with people they know, or blurt out random comments to total strangers. For example, Confide and Telegram allow you to send messages to people that “self-destruct” after they have been viewed. With Confide, text is blocked out and can be seen only when you slide your finger over the screen. Receiving messages makes you feel like some sort of James Bond character. Telegram offers private chatrooms where you can set a “timer” and all the text vanishes after a set period of time — usually one to five minutes. Many of these messaging start-ups are clearly variations on SnapChat, an app that allows you to take and send a vanishing picture. It exploded in popularity last year. But there are some that go beyond just messaging and are created to be social. The idea of an “anonymous social network” might sound as ridiculous as a puppy that doesn’t like going outside for walks. Yet that’s how this new crop of social apps work. Secret, which seems to be relishing its 15 minutes of fame, allows you to gossip anonymously about whatever you want. It’s unclear if the “secrets” being shared are fact or fiction or from whom they came. But beware, open this app and you’ll find yourself in a sea of negativity, with apparent Silicon Valley citizens complaining about venture capitalists, founders of companies and their “friends.” On Secret, the negative seems to be predominant at least partially because there are no consequences to what you say. In an email message, David Byttow and Chrys Bader, co-founders of Secret, said the app was not intended to be full of spite, but rather to increase authenticity and empathy between people online. “We’ve seen so many examples of amazing support both in our friend circle and shared by others,” the two said in the message. “Though, given the nature of the product, each user has their own, unique vantage point. And some of those vantage points will not publicly highlight the most positive aspects of Secret.” They added: “We’ll continue to encourage positivity on Secret through our product and policy decisions every step of the way. ” The new social app called Wut is a bit like Facebook with only your friends’ status updates and nothing more. It’s dead simple. When you send a message, only your friends will see it, yet they will have no idea the note came from you unless you say. While it may sound totally bizarre, it’s also incredibly fun, and because you know it’s just your friends on the network, it’s surprisingly personal. Wut feels intended to make people feel good, not bad. Paul McKellar, chief executive officer of Wut, said the app started as an experiment that he built in an hour for his friends, and it soon became apparent that it was highly addictive. He teamed up with Beamer Wilkins, a designer and app maker, and the two released the current incarnation of Wut last month. Mr. McKellar said Wut is intended to be “a very lightweight and very casual social network.” He said there was “no doubt or fear with what you’re posting; there’s no anxiety.” “I can post things on Wut that I don’t want to last forever,” he said. “And that message is unattributed and casually anonymous.” While the messages do live on the network for a short time, Mr. McKellar said they were deleted as soon as possible from the servers. Additionally, Wut’s alerts are silent, so your phone doesn’t vibrate or ding loudly when someone sends a message on the network. Then there is Popcorn Messaging, which allows you to privately chat with anyone in a one-mile radius of your smartphone. The app hopes to enable people to anonymously talk with other people at local events, including sports games, or to just find people to banter in the area. All of these vanishing social apps could vanish themselves at some point —  viral sensations that go the way of Chatroulette. Or we could be reaching a point where people want online places to be able to share privately and semi-anonymously, and one of these apps will rise to the top. It’s accurate to say that in some instances these apps are going to be used for things that may cross a moral line — like cheating on a significant other or organizing secret, nefarious meetings — but they also hold the promise of being used by people who want to have a little fun online, and don’t want the status update they share to be used as evidence against them later on the Internet. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Food   Melissa Clark. The author and cook Melissa Clark takes you into her kitchen to show you how easy it can be to make exquisite and delicious meals.          Kim Jong-un Boasts of Nuclear Strides Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics Erdogan’s March to Autocracy in Turkey Best of Obama's Correspondents' Dinner Speech Coconut Cluster Granola So You Want to Do a Handstand? Kasich Above the Fray Cruz Responds to Trump’s Paternal Dig How Will Obama Spend His Retirement? What's a Fab Lab?
Foreign   Ban on Liquids for Carry-Ons on Direct U.S.-Russia Flights. Advertisement Advertisement By ASHLEY SOUTHALLFEB. 7, 2014 Passengers on nonstop flights between the United States and Russia have been prohibited from packing liquids, gels, aerosols or powders in their carry-on bags during the Winter Olympic Games in Sochi under a new directive issued by the United States Transportation Security Administration. The ban, which Delta Air Lines announced on its website on Thursday, was imposed amid concerns that terrorists might try to assemble explosives in the air or at the Games from materials smuggled onto planes. The Department of Homeland Security warned airlines about that possibility on Wednesday, although the agency added that it was not aware of a specific threat. “Our security posture, which at all times includes a number of measures both seen and unseen, will continue to respond and appropriately adapt to protect the American people from an ever-evolving threat picture,” a department official said. “These measures include intelligence gathering and analysis, deployment of cutting-edge technology, random canine team searches at airports, federal air marshals, federal flight deck officers, temporarily restricting certain items and more security measures both visible and invisible to the public.” The temporary restrictions exclude prescription medications and do not apply to checked bags. Delta Air Lines, the only American carrier with regularly scheduled direct flights to Russia, said passengers traveling to Russia must check in with an airline representative, instead of online or at electronic kiosks. United Airlines, the official carrier of the American Olympic team, does not have direct flights to Russia but operates charter flights to Sochi. The Olympics in Sochi are opening on Friday and are scheduled to run through Feb. 23. Michael D. Shear contributed reporting from Washington. Go to Home Page »
Health   The Weekly Health Quiz. Advertisement Advertisement In the news: shivering as exercise, CVS and peanut allergies. Test your knowledge of this week’s health news. FEB. 6, 2014 Toby Bilanow/The New York Times In the news: childhood obesity, testosterone therapy and the amount of exercise that might save you from an early death.
Movies   Clip: 'Child's Pose'. A scene from the film, directed by Calin Peter Netzer.          
Politics   In PracticeTracking the Affordable Care Act. View All Posts » BOSTON – Gov. Deval Patrick of Massachusetts has appointed an insurance executive to oversee repairs to the state’s bungled effort to bring its health exchange in line with the requirements of President Obama’s health care law. Mr. Patrick also announced the state will pay a technology firm, Optum, nearly $10 million to help fix the exchange. “The point is to catch up on the backlog and deliver a system that will give our residents convenience and confidence,” said Mr. Patrick at a news conference in Boston on Thursday. The announcements came the same day as the release of a report that was critical of the state and its principal systems integration contractor, CGI, for the bumpy rollout last fall of an updated version of the state’s health care exchange, an online marketplace for health insurance. Problems with the exchange meant that many applications had to be processed by hand. Tens of thousands of applicants were either given temporary insurance coverage by the state or had their existing state coverage extended, rather than being enrolled in private plans under the new health care law, the Affordable Care Act. Some users have complained that they are unsure of their coverage status because they were not immediately informed about it. At the end of last year, according to a New York Times analysis, the state was last in the nation in meeting enrollment goals, signing up only 5,428 applicants in private plans. By Thursday night, 8,444 people were enrolled in private plans under the exchange. 111,000 applicants had their previous state coverage extended, while 30,000 were given temporary state coverage. The failure of the website here has been deeply embarrassing both to state officials and proponents of Mr. Obama’s law, which in many ways was modeled on Massachusetts’ own health care overhaul enacted in 2006. Before the Affordable Care Act took effect, Massachusetts had its own online marketplace, which was running smoothly. But that system had to be updated to comply with the new federal system. A report commissioned by the state and conducted by an outside technology company, MITRE, identified “significant problems” with CGI’s work, saying the IT contractor did not have the expertise to build the site, had lost data, failed to adequately test functions and poorly managed the project. CGI was also a major contractor on the problem-plagued federal health care exchange. In a statement, CGI’S vice president of global communications, Linda Ororsio, said the company “looks forward to continuing our work with Optum to accelerate improvement of the Massachusetts Health Connector. We remain determined to help Massachusetts residents get insured by enrolling in health plans via the Connector, and we fully intend to meet our contractual obligations.” But the report said it was not clear which of the state organizations that worked on the project – the Massachusetts Health Connector, MassHealth (the state’s Medicaid program) and the University of Massachusetts Medical School – was in charge. “There does not appear to be a consistent, unified vision for the system nor clear lines of accountability for implementing the vision,” the report said. Mr. Patrick said that his appointment of Sarah Iselin, a Blue Cross Blue Shield executive who worked to implement the 2006 health law here, would improve the state’s monitoring of CGI by using a single executive instead of a committee. “This vendor required and will require a much shorter leash,” Mr. Patrick said. A team of 300 people from Optum, the technology firm that has helped improve the functionality of the federal health exchange, will work with Ms. Iselin and CGI to fix the state’s website. They will be paid up to $9.8 million over the next month, and the contract may be extended. “The technology is fixable,” said Andy Slavitt, a group executive vice president at Optum. “There’s a lot to do and there are more resources needed, but the right activities are underway under Sarah’s leadership.” Mr. Patrick said the state would continue working with CGI for now, although they have only paid the company about $15 million of its $68 million contract. “We are only going to pay them if we get a workable system,” said Mr. Patrick. He said that the thought of dismissing CGI had crossed his mind, but the project, with issues of code ownership, was too complex for a clean break with the company. “We still need CGI for the time being,” the governor said.
Science   A Catalog of Cancer Genes That’s Done, or Just a Start. Advertisement Advertisement Carl Zimmer MATTER FEB. 6, 2014 Cancer is a disease of genes gone wrong. When certain genes mutate, they make cells behave in odd ways. The cells divide swiftly, they hide from the immune system that could kill them and they gain the nourishment they need to develop into tumors. Scientists started identifying these cancer genes in the 1970s and their list slowly grew over the years. By studying them, scientists came to understand how different types of cancer develop and in some cases they were even able to develop gene-targeting drugs. Last May, for example, the Food and Drug Administration approved a drug known as Tarceva as a first-line treatment for lung cancer in which a gene called EGFR has mutated. The National Institutes of Health, hoping to speed up the identification of cancer genes, started an ambitious project in 2005 called the Cancer Genome Atlas. They analyzed 500 samples from each of over 20 types of cancer and found a wealth of new genes. The data have helped scientists discover more of the tricks cancer cells use to thrive at our expense. “The Cancer Genome Atlas has been a spectacular success, there’s no doubt about that,” said Bruce Stillman, the president of Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory. But now, as the Atlas project is coming to an end, researchers at the Broad Institute of M.I.T. and Harvard have published a study in the journal Nature that has scientists debating where cancer research should go next. They estimated that scientists would need to examine about 100,000 cancer samples —10 times as many as the $375 million Cancer Genome Atlas has gathered — to find most of the genes involved in 50 cancer types. Advertisement “We now know what it would take to get a complete catalog,” said Eric S. Lander, the founding director of the Broad Institute and a co-author of the new study. “And we now know we’re not close to done. We have a lot left to learn.” Traditionally, scientists have identified cancer genes by comparing healthy cells with cancerous ones. If they find a statistically unusually high number of cells with mutations in a particular gene, they can then examine it to see if it really does help drive cancer — or if it is just carrying a harmless mutation. Dr. Lander and his colleagues suspected this method could miss some genes. While some cancer genes affect most cells of a given type of cancer, other genes are only involved in a fraction of them. (EGFR, the gene treated with Tarceva, is mutated in only about 10 percent of cases of nonsmall cell lung cancer.) Small samples of cancer cells might not contain the less common mutations. The Broad researchers suspected that they could catch some of these missing genes by looking at several cancer types at once, because some genes are not limited to a single type of cancer. For their new study, the scientists examined cancer samples from the Cancer Genome Atlas, as well as cancer samples from the Broad’s own collection. All told, they analyzed 4,742 samples from 21 types of cancer. The new study detected many of the genes that other scientists have previously linked to those 21 types of cancer. But they also found new genes that had been overlooked before. All told, they identified 33 genes that they consider strong candidates for playing a role in cancer — a potential increase of the catalog of cancer genes of 25 percent. “This was eye-opening to me,” said Dr. Lander. Dr. Lander and his colleagues began to wonder how many genes could be found if scientists looked at more cancer samples. Was the cancer catalog almost finished, or only just begun? “We were able to ask for the first time, ‘Are we there yet?'” said Dr. Lander. They extrapolated from their own results to gauge how many more samples scientists would need to look at to find most cancer genes involved in at least 2 percent of cancers of a given type. Advertisement To find most cancer genes involved in the 50 most common types of cancer, the researchers estimated that they would have to analyze 100,000 samples. In other words, the atlas has gotten us a tenth of the way to the finish line. Dr. Harold Varmus, the director of the National Cancer Institute, said the study has raised valuable questions. “The paper provides some models about what we might think about doing next,” he said. He said the agency is now considering testing Dr. Lander’s hypothesis on a few types of cancer by gathering more samples. Dr. Lander and his colleagues argue for finishing off the cancer gene catalog. “Completing the genomic analysis of this disease should be a biomedical imperative,” they wrote in their new paper. In an interview, Dr. Lander said knowing most genes involved in cancer would be a powerful weapon against the disease. “How could we think of beating cancer in the long term without having the whole catalog?” he said. “It would be crazy not to have the information.” But Dr. Stillman of Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory said completing the atlas has to be weighed against other needs. “Whether we need to know every cancer gene, I’d like to see an argument for how that’s going to help the advancement of new therapy,” he said. For many researchers, the question comes down to whether extending the atlas project would be the best use of existing research funds. “There’s no question that it would be valuable. The question is whether it’s worth it,” said Dr. Bert Vogelstein, a Howard Hughes Medical Institute Investigator at Johns Hopkins University. Some scientists say it might make more sense to study common cancer genes that have already been identified, instead of searching for relatively rare genes that might not turn out to be helpful in fighting cancer. Also in question is who would pay for advancing the cancer catalog project. “We still don’t know how much money we’re going to have this year,” said Dr. Varmus of the National Cancer Institute’s budget. “We’re not going to set off tomorrow and do 100,000 complete genomes.” Dr. Lander argued that the project could be done for a reasonable cost, and might also be supported by philanthropic organizations or international partners. In any case, he said, he welcomed a debate about when science will finish the cancer gene catalog. Advertisement “If people say, ‘I would rather not know that for five years, or 10 years,’ that’s a reasonable argument,” said Dr. Lander. “But I would rather know that sooner.” Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article misstated a finding of the new study.  The researchers estimated that scientists would need to examine about 100,000 cancer samples — not genes — to find most of the genes involved in 50 cancer types. See More » Go to Home Page »
Sports   England Picks Harmony Over Headache. Advertisement Advertisement By HUW RICHARDSFEB. 6, 2014 Kevin Pietersen may not be wanted by England anymore, but that does not mean he won’t be a hot commodity elsewhere. On Tuesday, England told Pietersen, its star batsman and its highest run-scorer across all formats of the international game, that he was no longer part of the team’s plans and was being dropped. He was the second major casualty from England’s Ashes debacle, following the resignation of Coach Andy Flower after the 5-0 loss in Australia. Pietersen’s next step will most likely be to join the players who make a lucrative living competing in Twenty20 tournaments. Now that he is available for the whole season in the Indian Premier League, he will probably be a hot property during its auction next week. England’s decision to jettison Pietersen ended one of the most contentious careers in international cricket over the past few decades. Nobody polarized opinions more than Pietersen did in his nine years as an England player. For every admirer of his artistry with the bat, there was a critic of his egotism or how he ended up leaving his native South Africa to play for England. Pietersen, 33, vowed Tuesday that he would not quit the sport. “I believe I still have a great deal to give as a cricketer,” he said in an official statement issued by the England and Wales Cricket Board. “I will continue to play, but sadly it will not be for England.” Advertisement While his desire to play as much I.P.L cricket as possible was a consistent source of tension with England’s management, his sorrow about the end of his international career appears genuine. No longer will he be playing the prestigious five-day test matches and battling the very best in the most demanding form of the game. His numbers — 13,797 runs in all formats, including 8,181 runs and 23 scores of more than 100 or more in his 104 five-day test matches — place him among England’s best-ever batsmen. Jonathan Agnew, the BBC’s cricket correspondent and a former England player, called Pietersen “possibly the most entertaining, brilliant and unorthodox batsman I have ever seen.” Those gifts were clear in remarkable innings like the 149 he struck against South Africa in 2012 as he toyed with the Proteas’ fearsome pacemen, and in his strokes, like his audacious reverse sweep for six runs in 2006 off the lethal Sri Lankan spin bowler Muttiah Muralitharan. “England are certainly not a better team without him,” the former England captain Nasser Hussain told Sky Sports News. Shane Warne, the former Australia spin bowler, said on Twitter that “To me it’s a disgrace and a joke.” But Pietersen’s undoubted brilliance often came at a cost, as he often proved a disruptive force, upsetting team chemistry. While praising him, Agnew backed the decision to drop him. “Clearly this was a tough decision because Kevin has been such an outstanding player for England,” said Paul Downton, managing director of England cricket. “The time is right to look to the future and start to rebuild not only the team, but also team ethics and philosophy.” Exactly what provoked the decision to drop Pietersen has not been specified. But he has a long record of alienating former allies and of falling out with his teams and officials. Major figures in the meeting that resulted in his departure were England’s captain, Alastair Cook, who last year went out of his way to reintegrate Pietersen into the team after an earlier dispute, and its one-day coach Ashley Giles, who not long ago called Pietersen a “million-pound talent.” Advertisement In the 2009 Ashes series, Michael Clarke of Australia flagellated himself for letting his team down by playing a poor shot. Pietersen, similarly guilty, explained that “that’s the way I play.” A brilliant but disruptive 25-year-old may have a decade of productivity in front of him, along with the hope that the maturity will follow, so he would most likely be given more latitude. But at 33, there is much less productivity to come, and little hope of reform. “You can be an individual within the team but you cannot just be an individual. He has said ‘This is how I play, take it or leave it,”’ Geoffrey Boycott, a former England player accused of chemistry-harming egotism in his own time, said on BBC Radio. “Well, they’ve taken it for long enough, and now they’ve said ‘Thank you very much, we will leave it.”’ Pietersen’s departure means little is left of the once-strong South African presence in England’s top order. The former skipper Andrew Strauss retired in 2012; Nick Compton has not played well enough to be picked for the team lately; Jonathan Trott has been laid low by stress-related ailments; and wicket-keeper Matt Prior was dropped at the end of the Ashes series. When England starts anew, it will be a different team, shorn of its most vivid personality. It will also be a duller one. But it may be a happier one — and as Australia has shown in remaking itself from the tense, inhibited team that played so badly in the first half of 2013, that is something that can count for a great deal. A version of this article appears in print on February 7, 2014, in The International New York Times. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
U.S.   How to Identify a Stradivarius How to Identify a Stradivarius. Christopher Reuning, a rare-instrument dealer in Boston, explained how the violin, valued at $5 million, would be authenticated. But, he said, “When you’re a violin expert, it’s like looking at a family member. You instantly recognize them.” The top of the violin, made from spruce, has different widths of grain. Those widths will be compared to photographs like this one.  CreditMichael Darnton/Darnton & Hersh 1 of 6 Many blacks see Chicago as a hostile city that is not a good for children. Whites are also critical of the city, but more positive overall. FEB. 6, 2014 This Stradivarius violin that was stolen in late January from the concertmaster of the Milwaukee Symphony Orchestra appears to have been recovered. Christopher Reuning, a rare-instrument dealer in Boston, explained how the violin, valued at $5 million, would be authenticated. But, he said, “When you’re a violin expert, it’s like looking at a family member. You instantly recognize them.”
Business   Dispute Over Costs Halts Panama Canal Expansion. Advertisement Advertisement By REUTERSFEB. 7, 2014 The construction companies working to widen the Panama Canal and the waterway’s administrator each made new proposals aimed at ending a dispute over $1.6 billion in cost overruns that has shut down the project. Grupo Unidos Por El Canal, led by the Spanish builder Sacyr, said it wanted to delay making a $784 million payment until the end of the dispute to free up money to finish the project. The Canal Authority said it had sent the consortium a counterproposal based “on the parties contributing financial resources to resume work as soon as possible.” The head of the authority, Jorge Quijano, said the agency was ready to pull the plug on the consortium’s contract unless a deal was reached quickly. He said he had held general talks with other construction companies. Lenders to the project toured the site on Friday and were briefed on the work stoppage. The canal authority has disbursed the $2.3 billion lent by the group of development banks for the project. If the talks fail, the agency could ask the insurer Zurich North America to terminate the contract with the consortium, which also includes Italy’s Salini Impregilo, Jan De Nul of Belgium and Panama’s Constructura Urbana, a canal official familiar with the process said. A version of this brief appears in print on February 8, 2014, on page B2 of the New York edition with the headline: Dispute Over Costs Halts Panama Canal Expansion. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Fashion   Carrie Underwood at Peter Som. Advertisement Advertisement By BEE SHAPIROFEB. 7, 2014 Despite a biting wind blowing from the Hudson, show guests continued to brave icy sidewalks in pointy stilettos. Count the country singer Carrie Underwood among the fashion-first pack. She attended Peter Som’s 10 a.m. runway show at Milk Studios in a sleeveless blush chiffon frock and peep-toe pumps. How are you handling winter? Nashville is also cold right now. It’s been pretty dang cold there lately. I’m fine with it. I lived in Ottawa for a winter with my husband and it was way worse than anything I could ever imagine. Any tricks to handling the cold then? No. I never think my coats are enough, but having layers is important. You recently did the “Sound of Music” for television, which was a huge success. Are you going to do anything else like that? I mean, nothing like specific. I really try to sit back and try to see what kind of new things pop up that I could be a part of. But I’m just taking a little time off and trying to be creative and start a new album. Were there any challenges to filming a musical on TV? I mean, the whole live aspect was crazy. Somebody was telling me, “I don’t know how you memorize all those lines.” But if I had to do it now, I couldn’t. My short-term memory is awesome and then it’s gone. It’s out of sight, out of mind. Advertisement Are you wearing Peter Som today? I’m not. I really wanted to, but I ended up wearing Ted Baker. It’s spring-y. I’m going to will spring to come if I wear spring colors. It’s going to happen. Go to Home Page »
Foreign   1914: Barnyard Gaiety at the Paris Poultry Show. Advertisement The President of the French Republic yesterday afternoon opened the Fifteenth International Exhibition of the Société des Aviculteurs Français, better known to Anglo-Saxons as the Paris Poultry Show. The show is being held in one of the wings of the Grand Palais, which from now until Monday next will resound with the noise and gaiety peculiar to the barnyard. To judge from the hundreds of models of incubators at the show, one might imagine for a moment that all life was a mechanical affair, depending upon a box with heat in it. The Paris Poultry Society is looked upon by the Government as of “public usefulness,” and the President of the Republic, the Minister of Agriculture and other officials give prizes, some of which are worth winning, and attract exhibitors from England, Spain, Belgium, Switzerland and Italy. M. Jules Méline, the Senator, is president of the society, and among the list of members of the committee are: Vicomtesse du Bern de Boislandry, Comte de Pontbriand, M. Decker-David, Baronne de Reviers de Mauny, Mme. de Saint-Albin, Marquise de Sainte-Marie d’Agneaux, Comte d’Alsace, Vicomte P. d’Applaincourt, Marquis de Dampierre and Comte Delamarre. The present exhibition, although perhaps less extensive than some others held during the year, is of great value from a technical point of view for breeders. It also interests the public, for it is amusing and also a practical object-lesson for those who wish to know something about raising poultry and practising economy in their own homes. To judge from the hundreds of models of incubators at the show, one might imagine for a moment that all life was a mechanical affair, depending upon a box with heat in it — not too much and not too little. And everything is done automatically. The architectural displays of poultry houses and yards are somewhat disappointing, and the designs seem to be the same as in former years. There is very little art or beauty shown in the devices offered. — The New York Herald, European edition, Jan. 30, 1914  This blog will share highlights and curiosities from The International Herald Tribune's storied reportage. While we will share coverage of historic events — the world wars, the women's suffrage movement, the great expeditions — we will also republish glimpses of less earth-shaking moments and the ephemera of daily life. The same stories that caught the eyes of our generations of editors now offer us insight into the lives and interests of generations of Trib readers. Read more » From the International Herald Tribune archives: The Vichy government limits menus in 1941.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: A Nigerian officer at war sends a dispatch in 1916. Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: Germany establishes a naval repair shop 500 miles from South America in 1941.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: Prince Victor Napoleon gives a treatise on French politics in 1891.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: British troops attack Irak forces in 1941.Read more… Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   Coach Granby: Going Out a Winner. After 45 years of coaching basketball at Campus Magnet High School (formerly Andrew Jackson High School), Charles Granby, 79, is retiring.          
U.S.   Waiting for a Visa. Mr. Bachert’s wife, Debra, and their two children in a Skype session. She stayed in her native Australia to wait for a green card.          
Foreign   Anne Heyman, Who Rescued Rwandan Orphans, Dies at 52. Advertisement Advertisement By DOUGLAS MARTINFEB. 8, 2014 When Anne Heyman learned in 2005 that the genocide in Rwanda had orphaned 1.2 million children, she saw a glimpse of salvation for the country in the experience of Israel. “It popped out of my head: They should build youth villages,” she told The New York Times last year. Ms. Heyman, a South African-born lawyer who had given up her legal career in New York to devote herself to philanthropy, was thinking of how Israel, as a new nation state in the late 1940s, had welcomed and cared for tens of thousands of children who had been orphaned by the Holocaust. The Israelis set up residential communities called youth villages to nurture them. “Israel had a solution to the orphan problem,” Ms. Heyman, a supporter of Jewish causes, told The Jerusalem Post last year. “Without a systemic solution, this is a problem that won’t solve itself.” Ms. Heyman knew no one in Rwanda and little about the country, but she plowed ahead, raising more than $12 million; recruiting expert help from Rwanda, Israel and the United States; winning the support of the Rwandan government; and acquiring 144 acres in a setting of lakes and hills in eastern Rwanda. She then built a village of 32 houses for orphaned teenagers, setting it high on a hill, she said, “because children need to see far to go far.” She died on Jan. 31 at a hospital in Delray Beach, Fla., after falling from a horse while competing in a masters jumper competition at the Palm Beach International Equestrian Center in Wellington, Fla. She was 52. The cause was cardiac arrest brought on by a head injury, said Marisha Mistry, a spokeswoman for Liquidnet, an Internet stock-trading company founded by Ms. Heyman’s husband, Seth Merrin. Ms. Heyman had homes in Florida, Manhattan, Westchester County, N.Y., and Israel. When the village for orphans opened in 2008, a long line of teenagers, alone and shattered, stood in the blazing sun holding paper bags containing all their possessions. Entire families of some had been wiped out, and they had no photographs. Some did not know their birthdays, or even what their real names were. At first, almost all who came had been orphaned by the genocide committed in 1994 by ethnic Hutus against the minority Tutsis and the Tutsis’ moderate Hutu supporters. Later, children of parents who had died of AIDS began arriving. Other vulnerable children were also taken in. Advertisement Ethiopian Jews who had grown up at a youth camp in Israel were the first counselors. Housemothers were hired locally to make the houses into homes, often the first the youths had known. Many of the women had lost their husbands and children to genocide. Today the village houses about 500 youths, who go to high school, work on a farm, learn trades, record gospel music and, most of all, feel a sense of belonging. The camp was named Agahozo-Shalom Youth Village. “Agahozo” is a Kinyarwanda word meaning “a place where tears are dried.” Shalom is Hebrew for peace. Reflecting this thought, residents do not identify themselves along tribal lines. Ms. Heyman, who made Hebrew the first language of her own children in New York, saw Agahozo-Shalom as an expression of her Zionist ideals. “It is a way for us to share those values with the non-Jewish world,” she told The Jerusalem Report in 2007. Emmanuel Nkundunkundiye, 21, a recent graduate of the village school, told the Jewish American newspaper The Forward, “The Holocaust is the same history that we face, the same tragedy.” Anne Elaine Heyman was born in Pretoria, South Africa, on June 16, 1961, the second of four children, and was raised in Cape Town. She moved with her family to Boston at 15 and became active in Young Judea, a Zionist youth movement. She spent a year of high school in Israel in a Young Judea program and met her future husband there. She is survived by him; their sons Jason and Jonathan; their daughter, Jenna; and her parents, Sydney and Hermia Heyman. Advertisement Ms. Heyman graduated from the University of Pennsylvania in 1982, then spent another year in Israel before going to George Washington University Law School. In 1984, she transferred to Columbia Law School and graduated the next year. After two years of private practice, she became an assistant district attorney in Manhattan, prosecuting white-collar crime. She quit to devote herself to her family after her son Jonathan was born in 1994. Ms. Heyman began her career as an activist and philanthropist while at home with her children. She volunteered for Dorot, a Manhattan-based organization that serves the elderly, and became its chairwoman. One of her first steps in her Rwandan mission was linking up with the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee, which had set up youth villages in the Americas, Europe and Africa. Her principal model was the village of Yemin Orde, one of 50 youth villages in Israel. It has taken in orphans and other needy children from around the world. She also built one of the largest solar energy plants in sub-Saharan Africa; it contributes power to the rest of Rwanda as well. Ms. Heyman had plans to make the village self-sustaining, so that major western donors, like her husband’s company, would not always be needed. Called “Mom,” “Grandmother” and an angel by the youths, she came to the village four or five times a year, staying for several days or more. Agahozo-Shalom’s announcement of Ms. Heyman’s death quoted a Rwandan proverb: “Death is nothing so long as one can survive through one’s children.” A version of this article appears in print on February 9, 2014, on page A28 of the New York edition with the headline: Anne Heyman, 52, Rwanda Rescuer, Dies. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Movies   Clothes and Character: ‘American Hustle’. Michael Wilkinson, who has designed elaborate costumes for films like “Man of Steel” and “Twilight,” said the bold choices of the ’70s made designing for “American Hustle” a lot of fun.     
Society   You Park and Paul Suh. Advertisement Advertisement FEB. 9, 2014 You Jung Park and Paul Min Suh were married Saturday at the Atlantis resort on Paradise Island, the Bahamas. The Rev. Matthew R. Sweeting, ordained through New Providence Community Church in the Bahamas, officiated. Mrs. Suh, 36, is an associate at the law firm Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison in Manhattan. She graduated from Yale and received a law degree from Brooklyn Law School. She is a daughter of Young Sook Park and Choon Bum Park of Ridgewood, N.J. The bride’s father retired as the chief financial officer of the American subsidiary of Daewoo Electronics, part of the Dongbu Group of South Korea. Her mother works in Fort Lee, N.J., as the accounts and administration manager at the American power-plant construction division of Doosan, a South Korean conglomerate. Mr. Suh, 38, works in Manhattanas the chief financial officer and the chief operating officer of Optimal, a social media advertising software company. In October, it was sold to Brand Networks, a software and digital marketing company in Boston. He graduated from the University of Pennsylvania. He is a son of Hae B. Suh and Byong J. Suh of Fort Lee. The groom’s mother owns T & J Cleaners, a dry cleaning business in Fort Lee from which his father retired. The groom’s father is the secretary of Fort Lee’s planning board. A version of this article appears in print on February 9, 2014, on page ST23 of the New York edition with the headline: You Park, Paul Suh. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Sports   Michael Sam Opens Up About Sexuality. The defensive lineman from the University of Missouri spoke publicly about his sexual orientation and could become the first openly gay player in the National Football League.      
Travel   Feasts for the Eyes, and the Palate, in Xian, China. Advertisement Advertisement By PERRI KLASSFEB. 7, 2014 On the “Muslim Street” in the Chinese city of Xian stands a bronze tableau in honor of street food. There, on a crowded lane packed with stalls selling Islamic-Chinese cuisine — lamb dumplings, mutton soup, pancakes and mung bean noodles — tourists can pose with statues of a soup seller and his customers. It’s a photo opportunity that brings together Xian’s two most famous tourist drawing cards: life-size human replicas and superb dumplings. Each year, thousands of tour groups swing through Xian in the central part of the country, one of the four ancient capitals of China. The main draw is the site housing 8,000 buried terra-cotta warriors, the life-size standing figures that Qin Shi Huang, the first emperor of unified China, ordered to be created and buried to guard his tomb and fight his battles in the imperial afterlife. It’s perfectly possible to zoom in and out of Xian, stopping only to see the warriors in their open-air museum, and be served the characteristic “dumpling feast”: a high-end celebration of local dumpling culture that can include dozens of morsels, savory and sweet; fried, steamed and boiled; some shaped like leaves, others like flowers and frogs. But Xian, with its millenniums of Chinese history on display, is a remarkable place to spend more than a couple of days. Sights range from two splendid imperial tombs to the syncretic architecture of Chinese Islam at its finest, to an elegant Buddhist pagoda, all in the modern Chinese urban context of a city of about eight million people, replete with aggressive traffic, plentiful construction and bustling luxury shopping malls. One cold winter evening, my husband, our teenage son and I took the overnight “soft sleeper” train from Beijing to Xian. Our aim was a trip that would build on the warriors — and the dumplings — and let us explore the past and present of the city. The tiny train compartment was cozy, with comforters and pillows, and grassy cups of hot tea brought to us in the morning, shortly before the train pulled into the Xian station right up against the largely intact 14th-century city walls. We stayed at a residence hotel with small self-contained apartments in the historic center, near the Muslim quarter, and close to two famous 14th-century towers, the Bell Tower and the Drum Tower, both of which were completely covered in scaffolding. We quickly discovered that though we were just a short walk away from the famous delicacies of the Muslim Street (its formal name is Beiyuanmen Street), we were even closer to the rich possibilities of another small food street across from the hotel, which we quickly came to regard as our own. This street, completely lacking in historic character — or statues — had street vendors with steamers full of dumplings stuffed with glutinous rice, a man who hacked huge grilled scallion-flecked flatbreads into squares, and barbecuers with small grills on which marinated shredded pork and chicken sizzled. Advertisement On the Muslim Street, we sampled Islamic Chinese food, which completely eschews pork and relies instead on lamb and mutton, as well as glutinous noodles made from mung bean flour. Women made scallion-filled pancakes to order on griddles (you could also get your pancake filled with yellow chives or with spiced ground meat). We stepped into a storefront to eat our first bowls of paomo, perhaps the most characteristic Xian dish of all: flatbread crumbled into a rich mutton soup. Xian, the eastern end of the old Silk Road, has long been important for Muslims and Buddhists, emperors and traders. The Great Mosque of Xian was founded in 742, not so long after Islam took root in China. The mosque, rebuilt over the centuries, is notable for its Chinese architecture — a minaret that strongly resembles a pagoda, and pavilions decorated in bright ornamental ceramics. As we explored, afternoon prayers let out, and the courtyard filled with men in skullcaps. Right off the Muslim Street lies the palace complex of a Ming dynasty nobleman, Gao Yue Song, who rose to greatness 400 years ago by placing second in the Confucian imperial examination; a wall plaque at the house celebrates his brilliance as a 12-year-old test taker. We wandered through the tranquil, rambling house, presented as a “scholar’s residence,” with its succession of rooms and courtyards. Advertisement The next day, it was time for Xian’s main attraction: the terra-cotta warriors. An hourlong bus ride took us into the countryside, past universities and spas; the area is famous for its natural beauty and healing springs. The Museum of Qin Terra-Cotta Warriors and Horses is laid out as a series of huge buildings, reminiscent of airplane hangars, that extend over the three main trenches where the warriors were excavated after they were discovered in 1974. Pit 1 features thousands of the life-size clay warriors lined up in rows, while Pit 2 has a smaller group, including chariots and horses. In the Pit 3 building, you can get close to individual warriors in glass cases. The museum is, without question, a strange and wonderful place to visit, whether you prefer to reflect upon the vanity of emperors, the skill of the terra-cotta manufacturers — who managed to give the soldiers distinctive personalities — or upon the lives and longings of the peons who fought the imperial wars. The next day, we had breakfast in the nameless food alley across from our hotel, where one particularly enterprising vendor with a grill built on to a bicycle cart made grilled chicken sandwiches topped with a fried egg and served on buns of puffy white Chinese bread slathered with two kinds of spicy bean sauce. Then we went in search of an entrance that would take us up on the Xian city walls. Soon we found ourselves wandering through a part of the old city that is lined with stores and stalls selling calligraphy supplies: inks, ink pots, brushes and seals. On the walls, we walked along a piece of the old city circumference, from guardhouse to guardhouse, passing bicycle rental facilities, where more ambitious visitors can circumnavigate the eight-mile distance on two wheels. russia mongolia Beijing N.Korea S.Korea Xian japan Shanghai china taiwan Hong Kong South China Sea Later, we took a taxi to the Big Wild Goose Pagoda, a Buddhist temple dating to A.D. 652. The pagoda is surrounded by pavilions with stone carvings, many of them celebrating the journeys of the scholar Xuanzang, a seventh-century Buddhist monk who traveled all over China and then on to India, in search of wisdom and sacred Buddhist texts, which the pagoda was originally built to house. We climbed the interior stairs, up the seven levels, and looked out over the modern city of Xian. On our last day, we visited the Hanyangling tombs, another lavish imperial burial site, this one from the Han dynasty emperor Liu Qi, who reigned from 156 to 141 B.C., and his Empress Wang. This emperor was again buried with terra-cotta figurines — but they were very different, both in scale and in scope, from the infantry, archers, officers and charioteers who make up the more famous terra-cotta army. For one thing, the figures at the Hanyangling tombs are doll-size, and include serried ranks of miniature sheep and goats and cows and pigs, presumably sent into the afterlife as a food source. In the enormous underground museum, you peer into the dim tomb compartments at groups of human figures or alternatively, at underground herds of livestock. Advertisement The emperor’s insistence on eating well underground (he was buried with figurines representing cooks and servants as well as all that meat on the hoof) is well reflected in the food offerings of Xian. We had dinner one night at Tong Sheng, a restaurant devoted to a higher-end version of paomo, and another night at the Xian Hotel, in a vast dining room of somewhat tattered elegance. But the most interesting food is bought — and eaten — outside. Skewers of highly spiced lamb; cold, sour liang ping noodles; ground meat sandwiches, sweet potato fritters; hand-pulled Xian noodles with chile sauce and cilantro; steamed sticky rice on skewers with sweet sauce and peanuts, mutton soup dumplings. There were also nuts and dried fruit; the Muslim Street, in particular, featured store after store with machines sorting walnuts by size, with arrays of dates arranged by value, and vivid orange persimmons available by the box. On our last morning, when we went out to buy our breakfast sandwiches from the man with the grill on his bicycle cart, he handed me my sandwich and said, “Tomorrow?” In fact, I could have wished for another couple of days in Xian; there was still so much more to explore in this city that deserves to be more fully seen and tasted. IF YOU GO Our train travel was arranged for us by Yellow River Travel, yellowrivertravel.com. We also found this website very useful in planning train travel in China, and figuring out the different kinds of trains and bookings: seat61.com/China.htm#.UUwjA1f8nIU. We stayed at the Citadines Hotel, citadines.com/china/xian/central.html, with studio and one-bedroom residences. Be aware that there are several Citadines around the city (and in other cities). The staff was very helpful and the hotel was comfortable and well situated. We paid about $130 a night for a suite. Tong Sheng restaurant, on the north side of Bell and Drum Tower Square, 86-29-8721-8711, specializes in paomo mutton soup, with unleavened bread crumbled into the bowl. Expect to pay less than 60 renminbi, about $10 at 6 renminbi to the dollar, for dinner. A version of this article appears in print on February 9, 2014, on page TR10 of the New York edition with the headline: Feasts for the Eyes, and the Palate. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Books   The Read Around: Wesley Stace. In his novel “Wonderkid,” Wesley Stace explores the kindie rock scene, a place where cute rules and where adults have a thing or two to learn from Stace’s kid characters.          
Business   Seattle Gets Its Own Tech Bus Protest. Advertisement @jseattle Gentrification protestors blocking MS Connectors this AM on Bellevue http://t.co/g3aINd1rF4 — Sean Maguire (@maguiresean) 10 Feb 14 SEATTLE — This city’s technology scene, though vibrant, is significantly smaller than that of its cousin to the south, the San Francisco Bay Area. So, too, it seems, are Seattle’s anti-gentrification protests. On Monday, Seattle got a flavor of the demonstrations that have popped up in San Francisco in recent months, in which activists blockaded (and, in one case, vandalized) private buses operated by Google and other technology employers. The San Francisco protests focused on the buses, which pick up the workers at city bus stops and shuttle them to their offices in the region. But the protests were also expressions of broader resentment at the wealth transforming San Francisco. A dozen or so protestors turned up in San Francisco at one protest in December, or at least enough to surround a large coach on a couple of its sides. In Seattle, a much smaller group of activists managed to block the path of several shuttles during the Monday morning commute that normally carry Microsoft workers to the company’s suburban headquarters. According to an account in the Capitol Hill Seattle Blog, two masked protesters holding a banner reading “Gentrification Stops Here” stood in front of a Microsoft Connector shuttle around 8:40 A.M. in the city’s Capitol Hill neighborhood. The protesters, photographs of whom were posted on Twitter, prevented the shuttle from moving, along with other shuttles that arrived later. An account of the demonstration on an anarchist Web site in Seattle said a “small group” of protesters were involved in the action. It included pictures that appeared to show at least four people involved in the blockade. A flier handed out by protesters at the event asked people to help fight development in Seattle. “The Connector bus helps Microsoft draw young employees into its ranks by allowing them to live in hip neighborhoods,” it read, according to a copy posted on Twitter. “This functions nicely within the city’s ongoing (and so far quite successful) project to shape Seattle into an upscale yuppie playground.” @jseattle Looks like the protestors have left now, they were handing out these: http://t.co/VVJwyBREoD — Sean Maguire (@maguiresean) 10 Feb 14 @jseattle backside: http://t.co/wRcgCdPs1X — Sean Maguire (@maguiresean) 10 Feb 14 A spokesman for Microsoft didn’t respond to a request for comment on the protest. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   In Our Pages: February 11. Advertisement    That the tango has received its social deathblow seems to be evidenced by the fact that a number of Italian dancing masters have just met in solemn conclave to decide upon its successor and also upon a substitute for the equally doomed maxixe. The tribunal which took upon itself so momentous a responsibility was representative of the International Academy of Dancing Masters, and its task not only involved the selection of two new dances from a number of compositions, but also the definition of and compilation of rules for the new steps. The furlana and the Ta-Tao were definitely chosen to succeed the tango and the maxixe. 1939: Britain Rejects Home Demands LONDON — The British government disclosed today [Feb. 10] that it would not sacrifice vital strategic interests of the British Empire in the Near and Middle East by maintaining a Jewish National Home in Palestine, ‘‘at the point of a bayonet.’’ Britain’s future policy for the Holy Land was sketched briefly and politely but bluntly to the Jewish delegation at the Palestine conference in London, by Malcolm MacDonald, Colonial Secretary. After hearing a firm statement of Arab policy yesterday the British realized, more than ever, that peace could never be brought to Palestine, or indeed to the Entire Eastern Mediterranean, Suez and Red Sea regions, as long as the present system of Jewish emigration and land purchases was maintained.  This blog will share highlights and curiosities from The International Herald Tribune's storied reportage. While we will share coverage of historic events — the world wars, the women's suffrage movement, the great expeditions — we will also republish glimpses of less earth-shaking moments and the ephemera of daily life. The same stories that caught the eyes of our generations of editors now offer us insight into the lives and interests of generations of Trib readers. Read more » From the International Herald Tribune archives: The Vichy government limits menus in 1941.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: A Nigerian officer at war sends a dispatch in 1916. Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: Germany establishes a naval repair shop 500 miles from South America in 1941.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: Prince Victor Napoleon gives a treatise on French politics in 1891.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: British troops attack Irak forces in 1941.Read more… Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Science   Giant Magellan Telescope. The Giant Magellan Telescope, when built, will have a resolving power 10 times greater than the Hubble Space Telescope.          
Sports   On the Road to the Best in Show. Advertisement  The focus of the sporting world is on the Winter Olympics in Sochi these days, but there’s another competition taking over Manhattan. This year’s Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show, at Pier 92 and Pier 94 during the day and at Madison Square Garden at night, features an expected 2,845 dogs of all shapes and sizes and fur types. The animals have come from far and wide, battling snow and cold temperatures to have a shot at winning “Best in Show” during the two-day event, which ends with a champion being crowned Tuesday night. On Monday, Nathan, a 3-year-old Bloodhound, won the hound group. Classie, a 4-year-old Miniature Pinscher, placed first in the toy group. Ally, a white Standard Poodle, topped the non-sporting group. Coco Posh, a Cardigan Welsh Corgi, won the herding group. On Tuesday night, the best of the terrier, working and sporting groups will be chosen and then the best in show. A few breeds competing this year that are newly recognized to the American Kennel Club: the Chinook, the Rat Terrier and the Portuguese Podengo Pequeno. For the first time, the dog show has included a day of agility trials, which took place Saturday, and opened the festivities to mixed-breed dogs. Follow the action here Tuesday. You also can watch live streaming of the event, courtesy of the Westminster Kennel Club.  Coco Posh was the first Cardigan Welsh Corgi to win the herding group.  Our #lights shine purple & yellow tonight, honoring @WKCDOGS & the 138th #WKCDogShow. #NYC pic.twitter.com/m6T6kWpaFg — Empire State Bldg (@EmpireStateBldg) February 10, 2014  Ally, a Standard Poodle, won the non-sporting group. Her handler, Tim Brazier, called her intelligent, outgoing and “very snooty.” — RICHARD SANDOMIR  A closer look at the winning poodle! This will be her last dog show #WKCDogShow pic.twitter.com/u5zXueTGYp — Hamilton Pug (@HamiltonPug) February 10, 2014  Classie, a Miniature Pinscher, won the toy group in her third year at the show. Armando Angelbello, her owner and handler, described her as “fiesty and high-spirited” and said that “even if she is naughty she still looks good.” — RICHARD SANDOMIR  Looking at the huge Irish Wolfhound in the hound group, I think that all three Dachshunds and the two Beagles could take a ride on the Wolfhound with room for the Basset Hound as the jockey. — RICHARD SANDOMIR   Nathan, a bloodhound from Charlotte, N.C., won the first group contested Monday, the hound group. He is a rare bloodhound with best in show and man-trailing titles. Fun for him is digging holes. — RICHARD SANDOMIR  And….Nathan the Bloodhound is the Hound Group winner! Love him watching himself on the TV monitor :) #wkcdogshow #dogs @WKCDOGS — American Kennel Club (@akcdoglovers) February 10, 2014  A poodle's work is never done #WKCDogShow pic.twitter.com/0vB5PaBeCb — Hamilton Pug (@HamiltonPug) February 10, 2014       Sleeping corgis. #WKCDogShow http://t.co/RaYi2OxPOW — Hamilton Pug (@HamiltonPug) 10 Feb 14    It’s a Boston terrier party! Black tie is not optional #WKCDogShow http://t.co/9Yg376RwEr — Hamilton Pug (@HamiltonPug) 10 Feb 14   Grooming aftermath #WKCDogShow http://t.co/NTM0QQKhIa — Hamilton Pug (@HamiltonPug) 10 Feb 14      Sunbathing bulldog #WKCDogShow http://t.co/J6lP5ia8eX — Hamilton Pug (@HamiltonPug) 10 Feb 14  Carmen, a wiry haired mini dachshund. Hello, beautiful! #WKCDogShow http://t.co/iJnPhVi2bE — Hamilton Pug (@HamiltonPug) 10 Feb 14    All in the chihuahua family: Moe, 4, and his daughter, Mia, 2, slake their thirst after their day’s work. — RICHARD SANDOMIR    DUDE. #WKCDogShow http://t.co/jqjDEnB7WM — Hamilton Pug (@HamiltonPug) 10 Feb 14  What’s it like to be an on-call veterinarian at Westminster? For Kathryn Flesher, it has been pretty mellow so far. The dogs of Westminster are show animals, meaning they are supposed to be in good shape. That makes for very few, if any, medical emergencies, she said. The most common ailment is stress. Even though many of these dogs are seasoned veterans of show life, even they can be a little nervous. — WENDY FRINK   Ok, why is this border collie not inhaling that food? #WKCDogShow http://t.co/fS6c3bPhD2 — Hamilton Pug (@HamiltonPug) 10 Feb 14   Even the most well-trained dog needs a little motivation in the ring to perform. And what is better motivation than food? Jerky and chicken are solid choices. If you’re Hunter, a 5-year-old boxer from Hershey, Pa., you get chicken and sausage. And perhaps the luckiest dog, aptly named Penny, is a 2-year-old Welsh corgi. She dines on hot dogs and mozzarella sticks. — WENDY FRINK    Reme, short for Remember, was born on Sept. 11 in 2010. He was the only black in the pug judging and emerged with an Award of Merit. He also has his own Facebook page.   A basset hound named Dude. Enough said. — RICHARD SANDOMIR     Ever wonder how these dogs get to New York? Well, if you’re Buddha, a 4-year-old Dogue de Bordeaux from Colorado, you claim an entire row of seats aboard a flight and just sleep, awaking every now and again to have your head rubbed and the slobber wiped from your mouth. Rough life. — NICKI JHABVALA     Tango won best of breed among the Portuguese Podengo Pequenos, one of three breeds competing at Westminster for the first time. — RICHARD SANDOMIR  Meet Kiera Sue, an Italian greyhound born into a “Pirates of the Caribbean” themed litter. — WENDY FRINK       Dutch, the red Borzois from Houston, is lucky that he made it to Westminster again. After showing in 2012 and coming back in 2013, he became ill the day before the show and had to be taken in for emergency surgery. After a close call, and an even shorter haircut, Dutch, a statuesque 6-year-old, has spent most of the year growing out his coat. He and his owner, Prudence Hlatky, spent two days driving to New York. A seasoned traveler, he spent the two days sound asleep with fans on him to keep him cool. — WENDY FRINK   Bond, a 3-year-old Rhodesian Ridgeback, relaxes after winning best in opposite sex in a ring with more than 40 rivals. He’s a Manhattanite, and he will go home after his workday ends at 6. — RICHARD SANDOMIR  Swagger, the Old English sheepdog who was Reserve Best in Show in 2013 and a crowd favorite, is back this year. A now mature 2-year-old, he is looking forward to competing again. — WENDY FRINK   Romeo, a Yorkshire terrier from Newfoundland, gets a few last touches before facing off against 31 similarly fierce competitors. — RICH SANDOMIR  With his head placed firmly on a neck pillow, Colton, a 2-year-old shih tzu from Seattle, settled in for his grooming routine. Colton doesn’t have the luxury of a “wash-and-go” style, as it takes around two hours to be show-ready, which includes the use of a flat iron. When he’s not competing, he is able to let it go wild. And once he retires, he will enjoy the convenience and ease of a “puppy cut.” — WENDY FRINK Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Technology   The Evolution of Facebook. 
Travel   Strollers Are the Latest Airport Amenity. Advertisement Families flying with very young children can now take advantage of a growing trend: A number of airports are providing loaner strollers to ease the stress of traveling. Frankfurt Airport in Germany introduced free strollers in October as part of its “Great to have you here!” program. Charles de Gaulle, serving Paris, introduced 60 strollers at Terminal 2E, and there are plans to offer additional ones at all terminals. Zurich and Copenhagen airports give parents a breather before flights by providing playrooms; strollers are also offered. Changi Airport in Singapore offers complimentary strollers in its three terminals. Countries in the Middle East established the trend: Emirates offered several umbrella-fold Maclaren buggies at every airline gate in Terminal 3 at the Dubai International Airport in July 2012. Maclaren strollers will be introduced at a yet unnamed major airport hub in the United States by the end of this year, a Maclaren spokeswoman said. A version of this article appears in print on 02/09/2014, on page TR3 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Airports: Precious Rolling Baggage. In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Business   The Day the Internet Didn’t Fight Back. Advertisement Updated: This post now includes comment from Senator Dianne Feinstein’s office and a protest organizer. | So much for mass protest. A consortium of Internet and privacy activists had long promoted Feb. 11 as the day the Internet would collectively stand up and shout down surveillance by the National Security Agency. The group called Tuesday, “The Day We Fight Back,” and encouraged websites to join an online campaign modeled after protests against the Stop Online Piracy Act and Protect I.P. Act two years ago, when sites like Reddit and Wikipedia and companies like Google and Facebook helped successfully topple antipiracy legislation. Instead, the protest on Tuesday barely registered. Wikipedia did not participate. Reddit — which went offline for 12 hours during the protests two years ago — added an inconspicuous banner to its homepage. Sites like Tumblr, Mozilla and DuckDuckGo, which were listed as organizers, did not include the banner on their homepages. The most vocal protesters were the usual suspects: activist groups like the Electronic Frontier Foundation, the American Civil Liberties Union, Amnesty International and Greenpeace. The eight major technology companies — Google, Microsoft, Facebook, AOL, Apple, Twitter, Yahoo and LinkedIn — that joined forces in December in a public campaign to “reform government surveillance” only participated Tuesday insofar as having a joint website flash the protest banner. The difference may be explained by the fact that two years ago, the Internet powerhouses were trying to halt new legislation. On Tuesday, people were being asked to reverse a secret, multi-billion dollar surveillance effort by five countries that has been in place for nearly a decade. And unlike 2012, when the goal was simply to block the passage of new bills, the goal of the protests on Tuesday were more muddled. This time around, participants were urged to flash a banner on their sites that urged visitors to call their congressional representative in support of the U.S.A. Freedom Act — a bill sponsored by Representative Jim Sensenbrenner, Republican of Wisconsin, and Senator Patrick Leahy, Democrat of Vermont, which seeks to reform the N.S.A.’s metadata database. They were also asked to oppose the FISA Improvements Act, a bill proposed by Senator Dianne Feinstein that would help legalize the N.S.A.’s metadata collection program. All was not lost. By late Tuesday, some 70,000 calls had been placed to legislators and roughly 150,000 people had sent their representatives an email. Most of those were directed to Senator Dianne Feinstein. Brian Weiss, a spokesman for Senator Feinstein said that their Washington office had received a higher volume of calls Tuesday, but would not say how many calls the office received or even give a range. Several privacy activists took issue with the characterization that the protest was unsuccessful. “Yesterday, we sought to make a dent, while laying a foundation for escalation,” David Segal, executive director of Demand Progress, one of the protest organizers wrote in an e-mail. “In those respects it was a tremendous success, and met every goal we’d set for it.” Mr. Segal added, “To mark all organizing a success or failure by measuring it against the single biggest online activist moment ever is ridiculous.” Others pointed to the fact that a Reddit post about the protest generated over 3,500 comments. Though most of those comments read like more derogatory versions of this one: “Online petitions. The very least you can do, without doing nothing.” Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   Delhi Chief Minister Accuses Reliance Industries Chairman and Government Officials of Collusion. Advertisement   NEW DELHI — Arvind Kejriwal, the chief minister of Delhi, on Tuesday ordered the filing of a criminal complaint against Mukesh Ambani, the richest businessman in India, and the petroleum and natural gas minister, M. Veerappa Moily, to look into whether the two men and others colluded to keep gas prices high. At a news conference, Mr. Kejriwal said three former bureaucrats and a senior Supreme Court lawyer had alleged that Reliance Industries, Mr. Ambani’s company, was getting help from government officials, including Mr. Moily, to keep Reliance Industries’ natural gas production deliberately low. Mr. Kejriwal said the complaint would also name Murali Deora, a former petroleum minister, V.K. Sibal, the former director general of hydrocarbons in the ministry of petroleum, and others. Reliance Industries runs production in the D6 block of the Krishna-Godavari Basin off India’s east coast, which was estimated to have huge reserves. Reliance Industries has long argued that its natural gas output from that block has fallen because extraction has been more difficult than expected. Reliance Industries said in a statement late Tuesday night that Mr. Kejriwal’s allegations were “completely baseless and devoid of any merit or substance whatsoever.” The company also said it would explore all its legal options. Last year, the central government agreed to allow gas producers, including Reliance Industries, to raise natural gas prices this April. The price increase would lead to a windfall of 1.2 trillion rupees, or $19.3 billion, for Reliance Industries while pushing up the costs of transportation, fertilizer and electricity, Mr. Kejriwal contended. “All this will have a destabilizing effect on the economy,” said Mr. Kejriwal. He also criticized Reliance Industries for its lack of transparency, referring to the reports of the Comptroller and Auditor General that said Reliance Industries and other gas producers had not fully cooperated with audits of natural gas blocks. Mr. Moily told reporters in New Delhi, “We should sympathize with his ignorance. He doesn’t know how government runs. Norms are followed. There is a system in fixing prices.” A Congress Party spokesman, Ajay Maken, said at a news conference, “We are not against any investigation. There should not be any investigation for political purposes. Any investigation should be in judicial and constitutional jurisdiction”. Mr. Kejriwal’s criminal complaint is an extension of the allegations he leveled against Reliance Industries in October 2012, when he was an anticorruption activist. Back then, he accused the Reliance Industries of receiving favorable terms from the Bharatiya Janata Party-led coalition government in 2000 to extract gas from the Krishna-Godavari Basin. At the time, the company denied the accusations in a statement. India’s national elections began April 7 and will continue on nine separate dates until May 12, with results expected to be announced on May 16. The vote is the world’s largest, with 814 million eligible voters set to choose 543 members of the lower house of Parliament. The other two seats will be appointed by the president. This election is widely considered to be India’s most consequential since 1977. India Ink will be moving to the World page of The New York Times. Read more… A memorial ceremony at the Imphal War Cemetery in Manipur to honor the soldiers who died during World War II.Read more… The newly elected prime minister reaches out to the public in a blog post about his first 30 days in office.Read more… Newborns whose mothers are unable to breastfeed are given stored breast milk to protect them from potentially life-threatening infection.Read more… In the final stage of a long decline, Hindustan Motors announced in May that it would suspend production of the Ambassador, a car that was once synonymous with style and status.Read more… This report on India from the journalists of The New York Times and a pool of talented writers in India and beyond provides unbiased, authoritative reporting on the country and its place in the world. India Ink also strives to be a virtual meeting point for discussion of this complex, fast-changing democracy – its politics, economy, culture and everyday life. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Movies   Remembering Shirley Temple Black. In the popular imagination, Shirley Temple Black would always be America’s darling of the Depression years.          
Science   The Archaeology of the Stars. Advertisement Advertisement By CURTIS BRAINARDFEB. 10, 2014 Four years ago, Anna Frebel, a young astronomer at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, found an ancient star in a neighboring galaxy whose chemical composition proved nearly identical to some unusual stars on the outskirts of our own galaxy, which are older than the Milky Way itself. It was a striking discovery, suggesting that the relatively young Milky Way is growing by conquest — “cannibalizing” nearby older dwarf galaxies. And it underscored the importance of a new way of learning how the universe evolved from the Big Bang to the modern cosmos. Traditionally, astronomers study the early universe by looking back in time — peering deeper and deeper into space for vestiges of light from billions of years ago. But in the last decade, Dr. Frebel and others have used powerful telescopes and high-resolution spectroscopes to study the chemical composition of very old stars closer to home, in the Milky Way’s halo, producing a wealth of information about the creation of elements and the formation of the first stars and galaxies. These astronomers are like Egyptologists combing the desert for relics of bygone civilizations, and call themselves stellar archaeologists. Their work relies on the fact that the rare, primordial stars they are looking for have very few atoms heavier than hydrogen and helium, the gases from which they came together. By contrast, our sun and other relatively young stars are rich in other elements, which astronomers collectively refer to as metals. Advertisement Astronomers believe that some of the old stars formed from the chemically enriched dust left over from the explosive deaths of the very first generation of stars, and their atmospheres contain important information about their forebears, like DNA passed from parent to offspring. The hunt for these scarce antiquities goes back to the early 1950s, when scientists recognized that not all stars have the same metal-rich chemical composition as the sun. “At the time, they didn’t know what to do with the metal-poor stars,” Dr. Frebel, 33, said. But astronomers have since established what she called “a framework for the chemical evolution of the universe.” Building Blocks The first stars were made up entirely of hydrogen, helium and negligible traces of lithium. With no heavy elements to cool the gas clouds, they grew massive, rapidly burned through their fuel and exploded in supernovas. During various burning stages of those first stars’ evolution, before and after they exploded, their intense heat fused the hydrogen and helium atoms into heavier elements — the first metals — which in turn enabled the formation of long-lived, low-mass stars. Some of those early second- and third-generation stars eventually made their way to our corner of the universe, where they long remained unnoticed by astronomers among a sea of even younger stars. Most of the stars we see in the sky are relatively rich in metals like iron and are known as Population I stars because they were once thought to be the only type existing. That changed in 1951, when the astronomers Joseph W. Chamberlain and Lawrence H. Aller found the first two Population II stars, with about one three-hundredth the amount of iron as our sun. Three decades later, in 1984, two astronomers at Mount Stromlo Observatory in Australia, John Norris and Mike Bessell, chanced upon a star with just one ten-thousandth the iron abundance of the sun. Iron content closely corresponds to what astronomers call metallicity, which is expressed on a logarithmic scale: Minus 2.0 is one-hundredth the iron abundance of the sun, –3.0 is one-thousandth, and so on. The newly discovered star was –4.0. Advertisement It was a serendipitous find, according to Dr. Norris, who along with Dr. Bessell would become a Ph.D. adviser to Dr. Frebel. Astronomers are searching for rare, very old stars that contain hints about the chemical evolution of the universe. THE MILKY WAY GALAXY POPULATION III STARS POPULATION II STARS POPULATION I STARS The first stars formed from primordial clouds of hydrogen and helium, hundreds of millions of years after the Big Bang. The heavier elements of the periodic table, called “metals” by astronomers, did not yet exist, except for traces of lithium. Nuclear fusion inside the stars created the elements through iron, and even heavier elements were created when the massive, short-lived stars exploded in supernovas. Cast into space, the new metals began the chemical enrichment of the universe. Metal-poor stars formed from the scattered remains of the first stars, and contain small amounts of metals. Astronomers detect elements in distant stars by measuring the amount of starlight received at different wavelengths. The resulting spectrum is often used to measure the relative abundance of iron compared with hydrogen. HE 1327-2326, a star near the tail of the constellation Hydra, is one of the most iron-poor stars yet found, with an abundance of iron about 1/250,000 that of the Sun. Metal-rich stars like the sun have been enriched by many previous generations of stars, and have higher percentages of metals. For example, the sun is about 98.6 percent hydrogen and helium, and has a much higher proportion of iron than a metal-poor star like HE 1327-2326. Stars in the halo of the Milky Way tend to have lower metal content than younger stars in the galactic center. Dark patches in the image of the Milky Way are clouds of gas and dust. An artist’s impression of early star formation HE 1327-2326 The sun THE MILKY WAY GALAXY POPULATION III STARS The first stars formed from primordial clouds of hydrogen and helium, hundreds of millions of years after the Big Bang. The heavier elements of the periodic table, called “metals” by astronomers, did not yet exist, except for traces of lithium. Nuclear fusion inside the stars created the elements through iron, and even heavier elements were created when the massive, short-lived stars exploded in supernovas. Cast into space, the new metals began the chemical enrichment of the universe. An artist’s impression of early star formation POPULATION II STARS Metal-poor stars formed from the scattered remains of the first stars, and contain small amounts of metals. Astronomers detect elements in distant stars by measuring the amount of starlight received at different wavelengths. The resulting spectrum is often used to measure the relative abundance of iron compared with hydrogen. HE 1327-2326, a star near the tail of the constellation Hydra, is one of the most iron-poor stars yet found, with an abundance of iron about 1/250,000 that of the Sun. HE 1327-2326 POPULATION I STARS Metal-rich stars like the sun have been enriched by many previous generations of stars, and have higher percentages of metals. For example, the sun is about 98.6 percent hydrogen and helium, and has a much higher proportion of iron than a metal-poor star like HE 1327-2326. Stars in the halo of the Milky Way tend to have lower metal content than younger stars in the galactic center. Dark patches in the image above are clouds of gas and dust.   The sun “It was called CD -38° 245, if you like star names,” Dr. Norris said, “and we knew that we’d gone down to something very pristine, but we also suspected that it was not the end of the story. So we worked hard here and elsewhere to find more metal-poor stars than that, but it wasn’t for almost another 20 years that someone would.” A survey of the southern sky in the 1990s produced a trove of potential metal-poor stars. In 2002, Norbert Christlieb at the University of Hamburg in Germany announced that one of them, 36,000 light-years away in the constellation Phoenix, in the Milky Way’s galactic halo, had a metallicity of –5.2 — a “relic from the dawn of time,” as the journal Nature put it. Shortly after, Dr. Christlieb met Dr. Frebel, then a young undergraduate who was taking time off from her physics studies in Germany to do research at Mount Stromlo, part of Australian National University. “I immediately recognized that she was a very talented student,” Dr. Christlieb said. “We had this idea to explore the brighter stars” in the 1990s survey, “and I asked if she’d be interested in developing methods to find interesting objects. She agreed, and of course her work was very successful.” Dr. Frebel stayed in Australia to continue her doctoral work, and before her degree was even in hand she had found a star with a metallicity of –5.4. Advertisement Until last week, that star was the most iron-poor astronomers had found. Then, on Sunday, astronomers announced a record. In a paper in Nature, Dr. Frebel and a group of colleagues, including Stefan Keller of Australian National University, the lead author, described a star in the Milky Way constellation Hydrus with a metallicity of less than –7.1 (only an upper limit could be determined). The star, SMSS 0313-6708, is presumably very old, perhaps the oldest yet identified. The astronomers who found it estimate that it formed over 13 billion years ago. But they cannot say exactly how old it is. One of the few ways to get a precise age for a star is to find one with radioactive elements like uranium and thorium, whose half-lives are known and can be used — like carbon 14 on earth — to date an object with certainty. Anna Frebel uses light emitted from stars to find the oldest among them. By ROSE EVELETHFEB. 10, 2014 Only about 5 percent of stars are thought to have such a chemical signature. Still, Dr. Frebel described one such star in 2007: a red giant 7,500 light years from Earth that at 13.2 billion years old is one of the two oldest known stars in the universe that have actually been dated. “We would hope for a consistent relationship” between metallicity and age, she said, “but the problem is that the uncertainties are so large and the samples so few that it’s hard to map out.” Advertisement By now, astronomers have found six stars with less than one ten-thousandth of the sun’s iron abundance, –4, and those are the ones that interest them the most. “The signatures in the stars we’ve discovered since 2000 are quite different from what we find in other, what you might call ‘normal’ metal-poor stars,” Dr. Norris said. He and others believe that they could have come only from the supernova of a single first-generation star. Astronomers, Dr. Frebel said, “are finding stars that are over 13 billion years old — what we think are plausible second-generation stars.” She continued: “So now we’re trying to decipher their chemical composition in order to answer questions like ‘How massive were the first stars? How many were there? How and where were the elements produced? How did they explode? And how did the first low-mass stars form?’ ” Seeking Cosmic Relics After Dr. Frebel locates a metal-poor star that she wants to analyze in detail, she heads for Las Campanas Observatory, atop a remote peak in the Atacama Desert in Chile. There she stays awake all night with one of the twin Magellan telescopes trained on her target for hours at a time. A high-resolution spectrograph stretches the photons of starlight across the visible wavelength, telling her how many atoms of each element the star contains. Back home, other scientists run computer simulations to see how the data from her observations correspond with different models of the universe’s evolution. The Giant Magellan Telescope, when built, will have a resolving power 10 times greater than the Hubble Space Telescope. The Methuselahs of the cosmos have divulged some tantalizing hints of how it all happened. Their chemical compositions suggest, for instance, that the first supernovas may not have carried as much explosive energy as astronomers once believed. Advertisement In turn, this implies that the first stars may not have been as massive as thought, and that some of the first supernovas “sort of failed,” as Dr. Frebel put it — with much of the star’s material falling back into a black hole rather being ejected into space. Another critical observation is that five of the six known stars with metallicities below –4.0 have unusually high levels of carbon relative to iron. Dr. Frebel said that could be a sign that the element played an important role from the outset, instigating the cooling of interstellar gas that allowed the first low-mass stars to form. On the other hand, one of the stars is not similarly enriched with carbon — suggesting that dust molecules could also have acted as a cooling mechanism. The discovery announced on Sunday supports these conclusions. But six stars are not enough to be sure of anything, so astronomers are counting on a variety of new sky surveys, including Australian National University’s SkyMapper project, which is already producing large new catalogs of stars for study. “It is very exciting that SkyMapper has now shown to be capable of finding these rare, ancient stars,” Dr. Frebel said. “It is already a great achievement for this new survey and promises many great returns in the near future.” When it comes to metal-poor stars, how low can you go? Such remnants of the early universe are uncommon and hard to find, but stellar archaeology is a young field, and new artifacts will undoubtedly come to light. Indeed, stellar archaeologists hope they might find a long-lived low-mass star from the first generation. At the moment these “primes” exist only in theory. But they could be out there, astronomers say, lying in some dark corner of the universe like an undiscovered pharaoh in his tomb, waiting to tell us about life along the banks of the Nile thousands of years before the Common Era. A version of this article appears in print on February 11, 2014, on page D1 of the New York edition with the headline: The Archaeology of the Stars. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Sports   Interactive Stories. Athletes at the 2014 Winter Games barrel down an icy chute at 80 miles per hour and fly more than 15 vertical feet above the edge of the halfpipe, among other physical feats. In these interactive graphics and videos, learn their tricks and techniques — and then see how they used them to take home the gold.
Business   Comcast Deal Seeks to Unite 2 Cable Giants. Advertisement Comcast announced on Thursday an agreement to acquire Time Warner Cable for more than $45 billion in stock, a deal that would combine the biggest and second-biggest cable television operators in the country. For Comcast, which completed its acquisition of NBC Universal, the television and movie powerhouse, from General Electric less than a year ago, the latest deal would be its second big act to radically reshape the media landscape in the United States. And the merger is almost certain to bring to an end a protracted takeover battle that Charter Communications has been waging for Time Warner Cable. Brian L. Roberts, the chief executive of Comcast, said in a statement on Thursday that Time Warner Cable’s executives “have created a pure-play cable company that, combined with Comcast, has the foundation for future growth.” For Time Warner Cable, the deal provides a neat solution to its problems. It will receive just about the $160-a-share price it said was its true value, and possibly more. It will no longer have to slog ahead with a turnaround plan being run by a new chief executive, Rob Marcus. And it will allow it to become part of the company that is already the dominant force in cable television services. Despite combining the two largest cable operators in the country, a merger may have little impact on consumers. Comcast and Time Warner Cable do not compete directly in any markets. Nonetheless, regulators will surely look carefully at the impact on the deal to consumers, and may also focus on whether the combined company will have additional power in negotiations with cable networks, a recent source of tension in the industry. The two companies said they expected the deal to close by the end of the year. Comcast has about 22 million television customers, according to the National Cable and Telecommunications Association. Time Warner Cable has about 11 million video subscribers, according to people familiar with the company. In a bid to appease antitrust regulators, Comcast is expected say it is willing to divest three million of Time Warner Cable’s roughly 11 million pay television subscribers. It was not immediately clear if Comcast would propose certain markets to divest, but shedding those subscribers should keep Comcast with less than 30 percent national market share for pay television, a level the company believes will satisfy antitrust regulators. Under the terms of the deal, Time Warner Cable shareholders will receive 2.875 shares of newly issued Comcast common stock for each of their shares, people briefed on the matter said on Wednesday evening. Based on Comcast’s closing price of $55.24 on Wednesday, that values each Time Warner Cable share at about $158.82 each. If Comcast stock rises on news of the deal, the price could go up, while if the stock falls, it could go down. The deal is subject to approval by both shareholders of both companies. Because it is an all-stock deal with newly issued shares, Comcast will not have to take on any new debt. Should a deal be completed, Time Warner Cable shareholders will own roughly 23 percent of the combined company. For Comcast, the deal, extending its leadership in the cable industry, is another transformative step in the evolution of what is now America’s most influential media company. It comes less than a year after Comcast completed the acquisition of NBC Universal And it will further extend Comcast’s lead as the nation’s largest cable operator. Charter, however, is left in the lurch. Charter is one of the nation’s smaller cable operators, but had big ambitions to compete with Comcast. Last year Liberty Media, the conglomerate backed by billionaire John C. Malone, acquired 27 percent of Charter, and urged the company to pursue deals, a process that could have led Mr. Malone back to the heights of American cable, an industry he once ruled as head of TCI, then the country’s largest operator. Beginning last year, Charter made overtures to Time Warner Cable, privately offering a succession of higher prices, all of which were rejected. Last month, Charter went public with an offer of $132.50 per share for Time Warner Cable, which Mr. Marcus dismissed as inadequate. He countered by saying the company would consider a bid of $160 per share, which Comcast has now nearly matched. On Tuesday, Charter nominated a full slate of directors to Time Warner Cable’s board, its most aggressive move to date. At the same time, Charter was negotiating with Comcast about a deal through which Comcast would acquire certain markets from Time Warner Cable if Charter was about to buy the entire company. Comcast, however, had other plans. Charter may buy the subscribers that Comcast has pledged to divest, giving it added scale but not nearly the boost it had hoped when it set its eyes on acquiring all of Time Warner Cable. Though the companies are set to announce the deal, it could still come undone. Shareholders of either company could vote it down, though that seems unlikely. Charter could still play spoiler with a new bid, though that seems unlikely too, given its limited financial resources. Or Comcast shares could collapse, leading Time Warner Cable shareholders to shun a deal. Advising Comcast are JPMorgan Chase, Barclays and Paul J. Taubman, the former top Morgan Stanley deal maker. Davis Polk & Wardwell and Willkie Farr & Gallagher are its legal advisors. Morgan Stanley, Allen & Company, Citigroup and Centerview Partners are financial advisers to Time Warner Cable and its board. Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison and Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom are legal advisers. The two companies will hold a conference call at 8:30 a.m. on Thursday morning. A version of this article appears in print on 02/13/2014, on page A1 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Comcast Deal Seeks to Unite 2 Cable Giants. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   Image of the Day: February 12. Advertisement   India’s national elections began April 7 and will continue on nine separate dates until May 12, with results expected to be announced on May 16. The vote is the world’s largest, with 814 million eligible voters set to choose 543 members of the lower house of Parliament. The other two seats will be appointed by the president. This election is widely considered to be India’s most consequential since 1977. India Ink will be moving to the World page of The New York Times. Read more… A memorial ceremony at the Imphal War Cemetery in Manipur to honor the soldiers who died during World War II.Read more… The newly elected prime minister reaches out to the public in a blog post about his first 30 days in office.Read more… Newborns whose mothers are unable to breastfeed are given stored breast milk to protect them from potentially life-threatening infection.Read more… In the final stage of a long decline, Hindustan Motors announced in May that it would suspend production of the Ambassador, a car that was once synonymous with style and status.Read more… This report on India from the journalists of The New York Times and a pool of talented writers in India and beyond provides unbiased, authoritative reporting on the country and its place in the world. India Ink also strives to be a virtual meeting point for discussion of this complex, fast-changing democracy – its politics, economy, culture and everyday life. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Movies   The Carpetbagger. Get behind the scenes of Hollywood’s awards season, with close-up looks at Oscar-nominated films and exclusive red-carpet access to the hottest actors, actresses and directors.          Kim Jong-un Boasts of Nuclear Strides Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics Erdogan’s March to Autocracy in Turkey Best of Obama's Correspondents' Dinner Speech Coconut Cluster Granola So You Want to Do a Handstand? Kasich Above the Fray Cruz Responds to Trump’s Paternal Dig How Will Obama Spend His Retirement? What's a Fab Lab?
Science   Dental Group Advises Fluoride Toothpaste Before Age 2 Sign Up for the Running Email. Advertisement   Parents should use a tiny smear of fluoride toothpaste to brush baby teeth twice daily as soon as they erupt, instead of waiting until children are older, according to new guidelines by the American Dental Association. That advice overturns the A.D.A.’s decades-old recommendation to start using a pea-size amount at 24 months. Once children are 3 to 6 years old, then the amount should be increased to a pea-size dollop, the updated guidelines say. To fight the rising number of cavities in the very young, the dental group now advises getting a jump-start on prevention. However, they emphasize only the tiniest amount of fluoride toothpaste should be used to minimize the risk of mild discoloration, white spots or streaking of the teeth, a condition called fluorosis that is caused by ingesting fluoride toothpaste at a young age. “We want to minimize the amount of fluoride consumption to reduce the risk of fluorosis while simultaneously adding a preventive tool for kids 2 and under that we haven’t recommended previously,” said Dr. Jonathan Shenkin, a spokesman for the A.D.A. and a pediatric dentist in Augusta, Me. Only a tiny amount of toothpaste should be smeared on the brush since some youngsters are likely to ingest some of the fluoride, he said. The change comes after a systematic review of 17 studies published in The Journal of the American Dental Association this month. It concluded that scientific evidence, though limited in children under age 6 and more robust in older children, demonstrated that fluoride toothpaste is effective in controlling tooth decay, and that “the appropriate amount” should be used “by all children regardless of age.” An early start is crucial, Dr. Shenkin said, because children with dental decay are at greater risk of developing cavities as adults. “By starting earlier, we can effectively reduce a lifetime of disease for a lot of kids.” Dr. Man Wai Ng, the dentist in chief at Boston Children’s Hospital, applauded the new recommendation and said, “It’s a great thing for parents to know: ‘Use a tiny amount of fluoride, and brush two times a day to counter the effects of frequent snacking.’” Most of the children she sees with tooth decay are using “a training toothpaste without fluoride,” she said. The new A.D.A. guidelines stress that children should spit out toothpaste as soon as they are able, but not being able to spit does not preclude the use of a rice-grain-size bit of fluoride toothpaste. Dr. Shenkin has had some 5-year-old patients “still not using a fluoride toothpaste because parents don’t think they can spit it out yet.” The goal is to have parents monitor the amount of toothpaste and to assist in brushing. Children generally cannot properly brush until they have the dexterity to tie their shoes. The American Academy of Pediatric Dentistry, another trade group, has long recommended using just a smear of fluoride toothpaste for children younger than 2 who are at risk for cavities, including those who go to bed with a bottle at night or have a family history of cavities. The best predictor of developing cavities in the future is a history of cavities. Some dentists already counsel parents of children under 2, especially those at high risk, to brush with fluoride. Current labels on toothpaste advise parents of children under 2 to consult a dentist or physician. The labels are meant to direct parents to visit the dentist, Dr. Ng, said, but instead, “parents jump to the conclusion that they shouldn’t be using fluoride toothpaste because their young child isn’t able to spit it out yet.” It’s unclear when and if the labels will change, or what will happen to fluoride-free training toothpastes, which currently are marketed as “safe if swallowed.” Dr. Ng said she hopes that other organizations like the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, which currently recommends that a pea-size amount of fluoride toothpaste be used starting at age 2, will “follow suit and be consistent with a single set of guidelines.” In that way, “the public will be less confused.” A version of this article appears in print on 02/13/2014, on page A18 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Fluoride Brushing Urged for Children Under 2. Your health questions answered by Times journalists and experts. Your Questions | All » Get Well's Running email for practical tips, expert advice, exclusive content and a bit of motivation delivered to your inbox every week to help you on your running journey. Coming soon. How much do you know about the amazing things that go on in your gut? Take our quiz to find out about the creepy, crawly critters living in your home. What surface is the most friendly to the flu virus? Where’s the best place to stand when you’re talking to a sick person? How does sleep affect health, relationships and well-being? The “Reading the Mind in the Eyes Test” measures ability to understand others’ emotional states. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   Backpack Key to Snowboarder’s Survival. The professional snowboarder Jeremy Jones trusts his life to the contents of his backpack. Whether in Alaska or Antarctica, the equipment he carries on his back is essential.          
Travel   Valentine’s Stays With a Little Spice. Advertisement Rose petals on the bed? Been there. Champagne on ice? Done that. This year in honor of Valentine’s Day, hoteliers are edging into racier territory. The Waldorf Astoria Park City in Utah supplies body oils and a copy of the Kama Sutra along with chocolates, Champagne and a $50 credit toward a ski lift ticket at the Canyons Resort in its “Kama Ski-tra” package, starting at $739 per double, through April 13. With the “Valentine’s Stay” package offered at the Hotel Zaza in both Dallas and Houston until Feb. 17, turndown includes massage oil and cake lollipops as well as a scented candle and bottle of bubbly. The deal starts at $419 per double, including dinner. And the historic Renaissance Blackstone Chicago Hotel throws in some chocolate body paint as well as a bottle of wine and breakfast in bed for two in its “Some Like It Hot” package, for $269 per night. The option is available through March 1. And don’t forget to tip the housekeepers. In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Business   Phrase From Virgil. Advertisement By Bruce Haight Feb 14, 2014 The New York Times Crossword is available through subscription only. FRIDAY’S PUZZLE — My, what a surprise! I really wasn’t expecting this, and I’ll bet you weren’t, either. Bruce Haight is back, and he has something special to ask us. If we all give him an enthusiastic “Yes,” this may be the first mass wedding the Internet has ever seen. We’ve seen people propose marriage to a single person in crosswords before, but have we ever seen someone who POPS THE QUESTION to an entire audience of puzzle solvers? What a romantic guy Mr. Haight is. I hope he can afford to keep us all in the manner to which we have become accustomed. We also don’t usually see a themed or even semithemed puzzle on a Friday but, this being Valentine’s Day, I’m guessing that Will Shortz selected Mr. Haight’s puzzle to observe the occasion. What a NEAT IDEA. Stretching across the center of our grid is the Virgil quote “LOVE CONQUERS ALL” and running down the center is the moment we’ve all been waiting to tell our friends about: Mr. Haight POPS THE QUESTION to us. Aww … we’d like a big wedding, Mr. Haight. In nonsemitheme news, we have seven entries making their debuts today, and my favorites among them were READ A BOOK (fortunately, my kids are big readers and never needed me to nag them about that), STAY COOL (no, thanks. I live in the Northeast and would really prefer to be warm at this point) and LAKE POET (such a lovely, evocative name for the group of poets who lived in the lake district of Cumberland and Westmorland in the 19th century). GUEST STAR, OIL TYCOON and LILLIPUT were also nice. Let’s meet the groom, sorry, the constructor: Hi Deb! This is only my second published puzzle — the first one was sacked for bad fill by every reviewer except you [Well, now we know why he proposed. — D.A.] It really did have some bad fill, but it was nice of you to focus mostly on the bright spots. I was introduced to crossword construction by Pete Collins, who coincidentally created the puzzle from two days ago. Thanks, Pete! I’ve also been inspired by Manny Nosowsky — a surgeon who published his first puzzle at age 59 (like me) and went on to become a legend in the crossword industry. My original submission for this puzzle had IT’S GOOD PR for one of the entries, clued as “This will help our image.” I rather liked that one myself, but Will felt it seemed “made up” as a phrase. He liked the rest, though, and I was able to repair the defect with surprisingly little impact on the rest of the grid. The only clue I hated to wave goodbye to was “It may have strings attached” for PUPPETRY at 39 Across. Will didn’t like that one, at least not for a Friday. If I squint really hard, this puzzle grid looks like a diamond ring to me, with four prongs holding the main stone (imagination needed here) and some smaller baguettes — perfect for POPS THE QUESTION. Is anyone buying it? Absolutely, Mr. Haight. We’ll just pop that on our collective finger. Does everyone have their old, new, borrowed and blue stuff for the wedding? Just swap among yourselves if you need something borrowed. Ready to waltz down the aisle, Mr. Haight? Mr. Haight? Hey, where’d he go? Wordplay wishes everyone a warm and happy Valentine’s Day. Your thoughts? Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… David Poole has something up his sleeve.Read more… Jacob Stulberg is all wet. Don’t tell him I said that.Read more… The return of John Westwig.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   Image of the Day: February 13. Advertisement   India’s national elections began April 7 and will continue on nine separate dates until May 12, with results expected to be announced on May 16. The vote is the world’s largest, with 814 million eligible voters set to choose 543 members of the lower house of Parliament. The other two seats will be appointed by the president. This election is widely considered to be India’s most consequential since 1977. India Ink will be moving to the World page of The New York Times. Read more… A memorial ceremony at the Imphal War Cemetery in Manipur to honor the soldiers who died during World War II.Read more… The newly elected prime minister reaches out to the public in a blog post about his first 30 days in office.Read more… Newborns whose mothers are unable to breastfeed are given stored breast milk to protect them from potentially life-threatening infection.Read more… In the final stage of a long decline, Hindustan Motors announced in May that it would suspend production of the Ambassador, a car that was once synonymous with style and status.Read more… This report on India from the journalists of The New York Times and a pool of talented writers in India and beyond provides unbiased, authoritative reporting on the country and its place in the world. India Ink also strives to be a virtual meeting point for discussion of this complex, fast-changing democracy – its politics, economy, culture and everyday life. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Home   Modernism’s Giant Showcase. Advertisement Advertisement By STEVEN KURUTZFEB. 12, 2014 The dealers who attend the Palm Springs Modernism Show and Sale must luxuriate in their home-field advantage: With its copious midcentury architecture, the city is one big ad for their wares. This year’s show, which is timed to Modernism Week and begins Friday, is the largest in its 14 years. More than 85 exhibitors will be selling furniture, jewelry, pottery, textiles and other items representative of 20th-century design, like a welded steel sculpture by Paul Kasper ($14,000, from Fat ChanceLos Angeles) and a signed lithograph by Alexander Calder ($3,150, from Palette Contemporary Art & Craft). Gerard O’Brien, who owns the Los Angeles-based Reform Gallery, has done the show since its inception. Among his more interesting offerings this year, he said, are a one-of-a-kind Jack Rogers Hopkins chair and wall divider, and a pair of John Follis suede Solo chairs from 1976 that “look like they came out of Halston’s apartment.” The Hopkins piece is $75,000, a hefty price. But where else would it find a buyer than Palm Springs, Calif.? “It’s a city where people who come are predisposed to modernism,” Mr. O’Brien said. Information: dolphinfairs.com/palmsprings. A version of this article appears in print on February 13, 2014, on page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: Modernism’s Giant Showcase. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Movies   This Week’s Movies. The ultimate film lover’s guide: The Times critics A.O. Scott, Manohla Dargis and Stephen Holden offer their picks for the week’s best movies, from blockbusters to hidden gems.          Kim Jong-un Boasts of Nuclear Strides Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics Erdogan’s March to Autocracy in Turkey Best of Obama's Correspondents' Dinner Speech Coconut Cluster Granola So You Want to Do a Handstand? Kasich Above the Fray Cruz Responds to Trump’s Paternal Dig How Will Obama Spend His Retirement? What's a Fab Lab?
Politics   In PracticeTracking the Affordable Care Act. View All Posts » BOSTON — Massachusetts officials said Thursday that they have an additional three months to bring the state’s health care system in line with the national Affordable Care Act. The waiver, which was granted by federal officials on Wednesday, will allow the state to keep more than 100,000 people on state-run health insurance plans that do not comply with the requirements of the new law until June 30. “We are determined to get this project back on track and get people out of this temporary coverage plan and transition to the program that they belong in,” said Sarah Iselin, a health insurance executive who was appointed last week by Gov. Deval Patrick to oversee repairs to the state’s troubled efforts to update its online health insurance exchange so it complies with the federal law. Massachusetts created its own online marketplace for health insurance when it passed a health care overhaul in 2006. That website functioned as intended until it was changed last fall to bring it up to date with the requirements of the Affordable Care Act. The site had problems determining whether many applicants were eligibile for the federal subsidies, and left tens of thousands of applications to be processed by hand. Unable to immediately enroll applicants in new, private plans under the Affordable Care Act, state officials extended existing state coverage for about 124,000 individuals, and granted temporary state coverage to about 30,000 new applicants. Those individuals were supposed to move onto new plans by March. 31; the federal waiver gives officials another three months to do that. “This is not a position we wanted to be in,” said Ms. Iselin, who said there was a backlog of an additional 50,000 applications that had yet to be processed. A health care technology firm, Optum, has been hired by the state to help process those applications and improve the functionality of the exchange website. Last week, state officials released a report by an outside technology firm, Mitre Corporation, that criticized both the state and its principal contractor, CGI, for the failure of Massachusetts’ new health exchange website. The report said that state organizations leading the website’s overhaul lacked a “unified vision” for the project and that CGI lacked adequate expertise, managed the project poorly, lost data and failed to do enough testing before the launch of the new site. The problems have been embarrassing to proponents of the federal health care overhaul who have pointed to Massachusetts as a successful implementation of a health exchange and an individual mandate. Ms. Iselin said that part of the challenge here was that Massachusetts, which had the only state insurance marketplace before the Affordable Care Act was passed, was not simply extending coverage to new individuals but moving people from its old system to a new one. “In some ways, it’s made this part of implementing the A.C.A. more complex for us than other places that didn’t have the same long history of these incremental expansions,” she said. The state originally asked for a six-month extension. Ms Iselin said it was “too soon too tell” whether they would need more than the three months they got.
Science   ScienceTake. See how monkeys teach manners, elephants show empathy and ants imitate water in ScienceTake, combining cutting-edge research from the world of science with stunning footage of the natural world in action.          Kim Jong-un Boasts of Nuclear Strides Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics Erdogan’s March to Autocracy in Turkey Best of Obama's Correspondents' Dinner Speech Coconut Cluster Granola So You Want to Do a Handstand? Kasich Above the Fray Cruz Responds to Trump’s Paternal Dig How Will Obama Spend His Retirement? What's a Fab Lab?
Sports   Short Track. On a track crowded with skaters, these racers have to accelerate in the turns and pass when the moment is just right.          
Travel   Learning the Language of Restaurant Week. Advertisement A new video campaign launched by NYC & Company, New York’s marketing and tourism organization, offers a comedic look at the orthoepic challenges of NYC Restaurant Week. The six-video series (watch a sample above) features commuters in Grand Central Terminal being asked to pronounce international dining-related phrases like “prix fixe,” undoubtedly an important skill for diners as prix fixe menus are the foundation on which the week’s culinary bargains are based. But the campaign is more than an entertaining public service message — it’s also an opportunity to show how the city’s cuisine has been inspired by so many different languages and traditions, Fred Dixon, the interim chief executive of NYC & Company, said in a press release. Still, watching people try to pronounce “sfogliatelle,” is just plain funny. Restaurant week runs Feb. 17 through March 7 and offers prix fixe lunches and dinners (for $25 and $38, not including beverages, tax and tip) at almost 300 establishments across the five boroughs. To make a reservation or view more videos, go to nycgo.com/restaurantweek. In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
U.S.   A Timelapse of Snow Covering Washington. The biggest snowstorm of the year hit Washington Wednesday night, closing federal offices on Thursday.                    
Business   Where to Read a Plot Summary. Advertisement Administrivial “Win Valuable Prizes” Alert! If you haven’t already signed up for the American Crossword Puzzle Tournament, running from March 7 through March 9 in Brooklyn, New York — and why not? You can play along at home too, you know — you can still register here. Feeling shy? Don’t know anyone who will be there? Pish tosh. Sign up for the annual Cru dinner (click the first link to register) and meet your tribe: friendly folk who love crossword puzzles almost as much as you do. By Julian Lim Feb 15, 2014 The New York Times Crossword is available through subscription only. SATURDAY’S PUZZLE — My blogdom for a toehold in this puzzle. That was my first thought when I looked over Julian Lim’s offering. I had a tough time breaking in, but when I finally made some headway, I really liked this one. Some solvers don’t enjoy it, but thank goodness for pop culture. I was able to guess SOUP NAZI at 23 Down, CEELO Green at 62 Across and Steely Dan’s liar KATY at 36 Across. That gave me enough to continue, but oh man, that cluing. There’s nothing like trying to decipher a misdirected clue like “Where to read a plot summary?” for GRAVESTONE to remind you that it’s Saturday and that you will need all your resources to get through this. At least Mr. Lim opened his puzzle with the very clever “Position papers?” for KAMA SUTRA to cheer us up. There is a bit of less-than-optimal stuff in here, like AN ILL and -IST, but on the upside, Mr. Lim’s puzzle has a whopping 13 unique entries. Of those, my favorites were HOUSE M.D., KAMA SUTRA, SOUP NAZI, RATION OUT and ST. BONIFACE. I also really enjoyed SO LAST YEAR, EGOMANIAC, PENNY ANTE and ZEN GARDEN. Let’s chat with Mr. Lim: I constructed this puzzle almost three years ago, and my main memory of it is having a Titanic struggle completing the southwest and northeast corners after starting to fill the grid from the center. As a result, I think there’s more ugly short stuff than I’d like in a themeless I’d construct today, particularly the yucky AN ILL. C’est la vie. I am happy that KAMA SUTRA made it into print with my original clue, which still kind of amuses me. Or maybe I’m just easily amused. The eagle-eyed may have noticed that both this themeless and my last have drug names debuted in them (CIALIS and now PAXIL) — I’m not shilling for any drug companies though, honest! On the other hand, I am generally plugging any graphic novelists/novels that find their way into my grids, so if you haven’t read anything by ALAN MOORE, please do so immediately. “KATY Lied” is the 1975 album by Steely Dan, and the titular liar is mentioned in the song “Dr. Wu”: Your thoughts? Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… David Poole has something up his sleeve.Read more… Jacob Stulberg is all wet. Don’t tell him I said that.Read more… The return of John Westwig.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Food   Melissa Clark. The author and cook Melissa Clark takes you into her kitchen to show you how easy it can be to make exquisite and delicious meals.          Kim Jong-un Boasts of Nuclear Strides Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics Erdogan’s March to Autocracy in Turkey Best of Obama's Correspondents' Dinner Speech Coconut Cluster Granola So You Want to Do a Handstand? Kasich Above the Fray Cruz Responds to Trump’s Paternal Dig How Will Obama Spend His Retirement? What's a Fab Lab?
Foreign   South China Sea Tensions a Backdrop to Kerry’s China Visit. Advertisement   Hua Chunying, a Chinese foreign ministry spokeswoman, took exception on Friday to a remark a day earlier by Adm. Jonathan Greenert, the chief of naval operations of the United States Navy. Admiral Greenert said the United States would fulfill its obligations under a mutual defense treaty to help the Philippines if it came under attack, although the admiral was careful not to say how much help might be provided. Ms. Hua responded on Friday afternoon that, “The U.S., who is not a party concerned in the South China Sea dispute, should honor its commitment of not taking sides on the territorial sovereignty issue, be discreet in word and deed and do more for peace and stability of the Asia-Pacific, rather than the opposite.” China has been increasingly assertive in the last few years in claiming islands, shoals and fishing grounds in the South China Sea, including near the Philippines and south almost to the coast of Borneo. When asked on Thursday during a visit to the Philippines whether the United States would help if China attacked as part of a dispute in the South China Sea, Admiral Greenert replied that, “Of course we would help you, I don’t know what that help would be specifically – we have an obligation because we have a treaty,” Admiral Greenert said. At a separate press briefing on Friday evening, Secretary of State John Kerry lent support to the Philippines call for South China Sea issues to be resolved according to the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. “With respect to the South China Sea, it’s important to resolve these differences in a peaceful, non-confrontational way that honors the law of the sea and honors the rule of law itself,” he said, according to a State Department transcript. Beijing officials have rejected using the United Nations Convention, although China is a signatory, and have said that they prefer bilateral talks instead with each country, as such negotiations give them considerable leverage over each of their much smaller neighbors.China is already unhappy after President Benigno S. Aquino III of the Philippines last week cited Nazi Germany’s demands for Czech territory in 1938 in calling for international support for his country in resisting China’s territorial claims off the west coast of his country. Hong Lei, another Chinese foreign ministry spokesman, responded at a briefing on Feb. 7 by pointing out that China had fought against the Axis during World War II. “It is inconceivable and unreasonable to place China-Philippines South China Sea disputes in the same category with the WWII history,” he said. “The Chinese side is shocked at and dissatisfied with the remarks from the Philippine side.” On Feb. 8, Mr. Hong also denounced Daniel R. Russel, the assistant secretary of state for East Asian and Pacific affairs, for questioning China’s recent assertions of maritime sovereignty not just to the waters near Philippines but almost to the shores of Malaysian Borneo. “China’s rights and interests in the South China Sea are formed in history and protected by international law,” Mr. Hong said. “China stays committed to resolving maritime disputes with countries directly concerned through negotiation and consultation.” During the interview last week, President Aquino said that no one should worry that expressions of support by the United States would embolden the Philippines to take an overly confrontational stance toward China, because the Philippines is well aware that its military is far weaker than China’s. A survey conducted in December and released in stages in the Philippines over the last two weeks indicated that Mr. Aquino may have been tapping into deep worries there about China’s territorial ambitions. Filipinos expressed greater satisfaction with his administration’s defending of the country’s territorial rights and foreign policy than with any other national policy. In his interview on Feb. 7 with The New York Times, Mr. Aquino strongly asserted that he would not back down from his country’s longstanding claims to islands and atolls off its shores, even though he readily acknowledged that the Philippines has scant military force to resist China’s increasingly vocal expression of territorial ambitions and steady military buildup. “One is perplexed at what China’s intentions are — I don’t think that there is any expert that can come up with conclusions that are beyond refute,” he said. IHS Jane’s, a defense industry consulting and analysis company, estimated earlier this month that by next year, China will be spending more on its military than Germany, France and Britain combined. But while public opinion tends to be heavily pro-American in the Philippines, particularly after the United States provided extensive relief after Typhoon Haiyan while China did almost nothing, many in the Philippines intellectual elite remain dubious of the United States and of President Aquino’s hopes for an expanded rotation of American troops through the Philippines. They see the current tensions with China not as resembling the West’s resistance to Nazi aggression or containment of the former Soviet Union, but rather in terms of the United States’ more recent inability to bring stability in countries facing challenges radical Islamist groups. “Becoming a frontline state is something we must avoid at all costs – Pakistan, Afghanistan, that is not something we want to become,” said Congressman Walden Bello, a member of Mr. Aquino’s ruling coalition. The White House separately announced on Wednesday that President Obama would visit Japan, South Korea, Malaysia and the Philippines in April. In the Philippines, the statement said, “He will meet with President Aquino to highlight our economic and security cooperation, including through the modernization of our defense alliance, efforts to expand economic ties and spark economic growth through the Partnership for Growth, and through our deep and enduring people-to-people ties.” Secretary of State John Kerry is making stops in South Korea, China and Indonesia during his current trip, but is not planning a stop in Manila. When he visited Asia in mid-December, he included stops in Manila and Tacloban, the city devastated last November by Typhoon Haiyan, and declared American support then for the Philippines, including $40 million in maritime security assistance. Sinosphere, the China blog of The New York Times, delivers intimate, authoritative coverage of the planet's most populous nation and its relationship with the rest of the world. Drawing on timely, engaging dispatches from The Times’ distinguished team of China correspondents, this blog brings readers into the debates and discussions taking place inside a fast-changing country and details the cultural, economic and political developments shaping the lives of 1.3 billion people. Some called on the government to send troops to the Middle East in retaliation to an Islamic State killing, while others cautioned that such a move could invite terrorism at home.Read more… The dissidents had won official recognition as refugees and had been previously detained in China for their activism, Chris Buckley reports.Read more… Human rights advocates listened with a mixture of incredulity and derision to the delegation’s responses on interrogation, Nick Cumming-Bruce reports. Read more… In the Philippines for an Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit, President Obama urged China to halt military activities on the disputed islands, Michael D. Shear reports. Read more… The dead, including women and children, were said to have been involved in a knife attack in September that left 50 people dead at a mine near the Kyrgyzstan border, Javier C. Hernández reports. Read more… Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Health   The Weekly Health Quiz. Advertisement Advertisement In the news: happiness and age, chick flicks and brushing children’s teeth. Test your knowledge of this week’s health news. FEB. 13, 2014 Toby Bilanow/The New York Times
Movies   Movie Review: 'RoboCop'. The Times critic Manohla Dargis reviews "RoboCop."          
Science   A Funeral Fraud. Advertisement The subject line of the email usually says something like “funeral notification” or perhaps “your friend’s memorial service.” It appears to come from a funeral home, maybe even a real funeral home. When you open the email, the message extends condolences and provides a link to use to learn more about “the celebration of your friend’s life,” or similar wording. It doesn’t mention a name, but the phrases themselves are enough to make you wonder: Who died? Alert from the Federal Trade Commission: This is a scam, recently hatched and circulating widely. Clicking on the link loads malicious software onto your computer, allowing the scammers to steal personal information and passwords, to gain access to accounts and to spam others on your list of contacts. Delete the email and don’t — don’t — click on the link.  Even veteran monitors of scummy attempts at fraud — some of the F.T.C.’s staff got phony funeral notices — describe this as some sort of record for stonyheartedness. “How low can you be, to prey on someone’s fear of losing a loved one?” asked Nat Wood, an assistant director of the F.T.C.’s Bureau of Consumer Protection. “It’s despicable.” The commission hasn’t seen evidence that the email targets seniors in particular. “The scammers approach this as an exercise in volume,” Mr. Wood said. “They send these to as many people as they can,” betting that at least some will bite. But I’m passing the warning along here, thinking that older adults could be particularly vulnerable. Who else goes to as many funerals, sadly? Losing one’s peers is one of the tougher parts of aging. And there’s some evidence that older people are more trusting and less able to spot deception, though the research recounted by my colleague Judith Graham was based on visual cues, not bogus email. So be careful and warn the older computer users you know. If they’re wondering whether someone they care about has actually died, “they’d be better off checking with the funeral home or with someone who would have knowledge of a person,” Mr. Wood advised. Those already victimized by these digital thieves will have to run antivirus programs to cleanse their computers. The F.T.C. offers advice on how to do that here. Paula Span is the author of “When the Time Comes: Families With Aging Parents Share Their Struggles and Solutions.” The blog is ending, but our coverage of caregiving and aging is not. The New Old Age will run as a twice-monthly column by Paula Span on nytimes.com and frequently in Science Times. Read more… At many nursing homes and assisted living places, a resident’s passing may be hardly noted.Read more… Circumstances had changed, and all these documents needed to change, too. Read more… Lifestyle modification prevents Type 2 diabetes even more effectively in the elderly than in middle-aged patients.Read more… Julianne Moore gives a wonderful performance in “Still Alice,” but the film skirts the truth about dementia.Read more… Thanks to the marvels of medical science, our parents are living longer than ever before. Most will spend years dependent on others for the most basic needs. That burden falls to their baby boomer children. The New Old Age blog explored this unprecedented intergenerational challenge. Paula Span will continue to write New Old Age columns twice monthly at nytimes.com/health and the conversation will continue on Twitter (@paula_span) and Facebook. A few medical institutions have opened their doors to patients’ own dogs and cats. Scheduling and medication errors plague patients with Parkinson's. Dementia doesn't respect public stature. Is there life after caregiving, and if so what it is like? Comprehensive reference and special reports about diseases, conditions, tests, injuries and surgeries. Useful information, tools, and links to organizations around the Web. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   Hanyu Wins Men’s Figure Skating Gold. Advertisement When Yuzuru Hanyu of Japan crashed to the ice on a quadruple jump, it seemed that the gold medal had slipped from his grasp. He fell again on another jump, and his hopes dimmed further. But Hanyu fought back to finish his program strong, a wise move because Patrick Chan of Canada had an even worse long program, stumbling on several jumps and shedding technical points all over the ice. So Hanyu, falls and all, ended up on top. The 19-year-old from Japan won the first men’s singles skating gold in his country’s history. Chan, a three-time world champion and the favorite coming into the Games, finished second. Dennis Ten of Kazakhstan finished third. Ten, who now trains in Los Angeles with legendary American coach Frank Carroll, captured the first figuring skating medal for Kazakhstan. Jason Brown of the United States had a chance, skating last, to grab a medal, but he faltered too and his jumps were not strong enough to make up points on the field. He finished ninth.  See all of the jumps from the men’s free skate. Kazakhstan got its first-ever medal in figure skating with Dennis Ten capturing the bronze. Carpet is being unrolled, podium being set up, lights dimming, fans evacuating for overpriced Baltikas and hot dogs on sale in the Olympic Park. Next up: women’s singles and ice dance. — MARY PILON  Yuzuru Hanzu becomes the first Japanese man to win gold, but the heartbreak continues for Canada, with Patrick Chan finishing second. Canada has never won gold in this event and Chan seemed to be their strongest hope. — JOANNE C. GERSTNER Not a bad Olympic debut for American Jason Brown. He needs to get bigger jumps, especially adding the quad, to move up into the highest echelon of skating. He scored a 238.37, finishing in ninth place. And Brown looks happy with a Top 10 finish. — JOANNE C. GERSTNER  And the men’s competition is now over. Japan’s Yuruzu Hanyu wins gold, Canada’s Patrick Chan silver, and Denis Ten of Kazakhstan jumped from ninth place after the short to finish with the bronze. — JOANNE C. GERSTNER Jason Brown is struggling on his landings. His triple axel-triple toe combo will be reviewed on both landings for possible 2-footing. And he nearly skipped out of the landing on his triple axel. Given that Brown’s program, his first free skate at the senior level, is not at the same point start value as the top skaters, he won’t be able to make up the losses. — JOANNE C. GERSTNER With Evgeni Plushenko out, Patrick Chan’s tumbling, the stage is set for Jason Brown in that Lifetime-movie kind of way. As if, you know, being a 19-year-old kid performing on the international stage wasn’t enough, the podium is in reach for the Americans. Brown came into this Olympics an underdog, but the smell of metal is near. Not too shabby for a newbie on the senior circuit. He’s skating tonight to “Reel Around the Sun.” — MARY PILON  And now, let’s say bye-bye to Peter Liebers of Germany, too. He crashed on his opening quad toe. One more skater to go with a shot of getting on the medal stand, and that’s the American Jason Brown. He’s shooting for bronze. It’s Yuzuru Hanyu in first, Patrick Chan second, and Denis Ten in third. — JOANNE C. GERSTNER Patrick Chan is going to look back and kick himself for not really taking control of this performance. He seemed just a little lacking in intensity, after opening killer quad toe. Just a bummer, because Chan has been so dominant the past three years since the Vancouver Games. The judges decided Hanyu was better. Chan scored at 178.10, total of 275.62, putting him in second place. Chan is hanging his head in the kiss-and-cry, after the scores are read, knowing this is done. The gold is gone. Yuzuru Hanyu leads by five points over Chan. — JOANNE C. GERSTNER  Another mistake on a jump landing for Patrick Chan. What are the judges going to deem as the better performance? Chan or Yuzuru Hanyu? — JOANNE C. GERSTNER The mistakes are adding up for Patrick Chan. He had shaky landings on his quad toe and triple axel, hanging on by putting his hands down on the ice. He’s not blowing the doors off to take the gold right now. — JOANNE C. GERSTNER Yuzuru Hanyu has scored decently, moving into first, with a total 280.89. His free skate was only a 178.64, well off his season best of 193. It’s all up to Patrick Chan now. — JOANNE C. GERSTNER  Credit to Yuzuru Hanyu, who recovered from a bad start to get better as his free skate went. Remember, he’s only 19, skating in his first Olympics, and came in leading after an epic short program. The pressure is all on Patrick Chan of Canada, to see if he can take advantage of this and win gold. — JOANNE C. GERSTNER Whoa. Yuzuru Hanyu of Japan, the leader going into the skate, just fell on his opening quad salchow and nearly fell again on his triple flip. He looked tight in warm-ups and now it looks like he is stressed out. — JOANNE C. GERSTNER Daisuke Takahashi, the 2010 bronze medalist, struggled with his jumps. The soulfulness of performance was lovely, but two-footing jump landings is not going to cut it. He was fourth coming into the free skate. He smiled at the end of the routine, seeming satisfied with his emotional performance. He got hit hard by the judges: 164.27 for the program, 250.67 total score, that puts him in fourth place. Denis Ten still in first with four skaters to go. — JOANNE C. GERSTNER  Daisuke Takahashi has said he counts Evgeni Plushenko among his heroes, but like most of the field tonight, he clearly benefits from the Russian star stepping down last night. Takahashi has said he plans to retire after competing here in Sochi and he won the bronze medal in Vancouver. With this final batch, you can really smell the ravenous appetite for gold, Japanese fans screaming with his every leap. Definitely something missing here tonight with no Plushenko in the mix. Plenty of Japanese flags for Machida, Takahashi, Hanyu tho #Sochi — Christopher Clarey (@christophclarey) 14 Feb 14 — MARY PILON According to NBC’s Johnny Weir, Javier Fernandez has given away about 20 points from his downgrades. And the judges agree, giving him a 166.94 for the free, and a 253.92 total. Fernandez is into second, Denis Ten still leads with five skaters to go. — JOANNE C. GERSTNER  Javier Fernandez brought a bit of cool to being first up in the final group. He skated with a gleam in his eye, and most importantly, just looked good. The only negatives were downgraded jumps. He tossed a quad into a triple, and two triples into doubles. Lots of points lost. Maybe the pressure of going for it versus being risk-free with an Olympic medal on the line led to his downgrades. — JOANNE C. GERSTNER Now that we have come to the six leaders, we’ll probably want to put our full concentration on the skating. So let’s quickly look at what to expect musically: Javier Fernandez of Spain will use the theme from “Peter Gunn,” a long forgotten TV show that spawned an unforgettable jazzy song by Henry Mancini. Daisuke Takahashi of Japan will go with a Beatles medley. We’re expecting “Yesterday,” “Come Together,” “In My Life” and “The Long and Winding Road.” The leader, Yuzuru Hanyu of Japan, opts for the achingly romantic “Love Theme From Romeo and Juliet,” from that achingly romantic 1968 Franco Zeffirelli film, based on that achingly romantic Shakespeare play. Patrick Chan of Canada skates to the old favorite “The Four Seasons” by Vivaldi. Peter Liebers, of Germany, has the most audacious choice of the final group, the haunting “Who Wants to Live Forever” by Queen. And Jason Brown. “Riverdance.” Let’s watch and listen! — VICTOR MATHER Here is Javier Fernandez. He’s the first Spanish skater to grab a world championship medal and was Spain’s flag bearer at opening ceremony. His Olympic biography indicates that he belongs to Toronto Cricket Skating and Curling Club, Canada, where he trains. Does he curl, too? When in Canada… — MARY PILON  Denis Ten is in the lead with six skaters to go.Tatsuki Machida is second, Yan Han in third. Final group hitting ice for warm-ups now. — JOANNE C. GERSTNER You can see how bummed out Tatsuki Machida is about that free skate. He scrunched his eyes and looked so disappointed at the end. That fall at the start was so costly. — JOANNE C. GERSTNER Tatsuki Machida is having a rough start, falling hard on his opening quad toe-double toe pass. Never got to the double toe. Big deductions in store. — JOANNE C. GERSTNER There are no fewer than 20 Japanese flags hanging from the stands here, surrounded by ravenous fans. And there are dozens of other flags being waved by people in their seats. This is the first venue I’ve been to in Sochi in any sport where another country gave the home-court Russians such a run for their fan cheering dominance. Daisuke Takahashi won a bronze medal in men’s singles at the 2010 Vancouver Games, but Japan has never won a gold in this event. — MARY PILON Yan Han of China was on point and skated cleanly through a huge triple axel, a quad toe, and two combinations. Good stuff all around. Yan is one to watch for the future. He’s only 17. He slides into second place behind Dennis Ten with 246.20 points. — JOANNE C. GERSTNER  Afro Celt Sound System, the unconventional choice of Sweden’s Alexander Majorov, is a techno-Celtic-West African band. That sounds like one too many genres, but the piece works, and is a nice contrast to the classical choices around it. He’s followed by Michal Brezina of Czech Republic, performing to the soundtrack to the Robert Downey Jr. Sherlock Holmes movie. Brezina has said in interviews that his program tells the story of the film, but it’s pretty abstract. He doesn’t mime looking through a magnifying glass or taking opium — a missed opportunity? And then on to Han Yan of China, who skates to the Blue Danube Waltz. Ah, Johann Strauss, a figure skater’s best friend. — VICTOR MATHER  Michal Brezina of the Czech Republic knows that is not going to do it. He came into the free skate in 12th, and a less-than-perfect performance – complete with a fall – is not going to move him up. His 233.62 points put him in second place, for now. — JOANNE C. GERSTNER I will pose the obvious: always amazing how somebody can pull off a quad, like Michal Brezina, and botch a triple axel into a double. The quad is such a challenge, making a triple seem like a “breeze.” (I know, I know, all the jumps are hard, especially under Olympics pressure.) — JOANNE C. GERSTNER NBC’s Johnny Weir and Tara Lipinski are making a good point during Alexander Majorov of Sweden’s program. A winning effort is a blend of the music, the choreography, tech content, and yes, execution. A lot wasn’t clicking for Majorov: awkward techno music, bad landings, and just never connecting. He has a 141.05 score for the free, and a 224.86 to move into fifth place. — JOANNE C. GERSTNER Alexander Majorov gets points with me for that robot move he did at the opening. I, however, do not determine who gets Olympic medals. The judges do. There’s a whole row of them with delightful little screens toward the front of the arena. When they announced their names at the start, people awkwardly clapped in the arena, confused. — MARY PILON  The final group is beginning to warm up, and here is the order and their position: Javier Fernandez of Spain (third place after short, 86.98 points), Daisuke Takahashi of Japan (fourth, 86.40), Japan’s Yuzuru Hanyu (first, 101.45), Patrick Chan of Canada (second, 97.52), Peter Liebus of Germany (fifth, 86.04), and the American Jason Brown (sixth, 86.00) — JOANNE C. GERSTNER  We know what you’re thinking: “Oh, Denis Ten of Kazakhstan, are you sure about your music choice? Shostakovich is too dissonant, too modern … why not try something safe like, say Victor Herbert?” But fear not. Ten isn’t trying to skate to “Lady Macbeth of the Mtsensk District.” His chosen piece, “The Young Lady and the Hooligan,” is a ballet, assembled from some of the more accessible Shostakovich tunes. — VICTOR MATHER And thus ends Brian Joubert’s Olympic career. This is his fourth Olympics, and this free skate was decent, with a few bobbles here and there. He won’t be challenging for the bronze, but it was more about saying goodbye on his terms. And like Jeremy Abbott, he accomplished that mission with aplomb. Joubert’s scoring was great, total of 221.95, putting him in fourth place. — JOANNE C. GERSTNER And Denis Ten vaults big-time into the lead, with 255.10 (171.04 for the long program). That’s 33 points ahead of Tomas Verner. — JOANNE C. GERSTNER The number of visits Frank Carroll has paid to the kiss and cry booth with top skaters is greater than the number of scrunchies in Tonya Harding’s arsenal. — MARY PILON  Look out for airspace. The jumps will certainly be getting bigger, both in distance traveled over the ice and in height, from the final 12 skaters. Denis Ten of Kazakhstan, who now trains in California with legendary American coach Frank Carroll, is showing how the bar is going up. Ten’s jumps, which had a few landing bobbles like a hand down for balance, were noticeably bigger than the first two groups’ efforts. — JOANNE C. GERSTNER Denis Ten is one to watch in this next batch. He’s Kazakhstan’s great hope for a first-ever medal in figure skating. He took silver, behind Patrick Chan, at the world championships. At that competition last year, Chan’s win over Ten was controversial enough to spark online petitions and an outcry from fans. His underdog status here could make him a hit with fans beyond his Central Asian homeland. Born in Kazakhstan’s commercial hub, Almaty, the 20-year-old Ten is part of the Korean minority of the population there and moved to Moscow in 2004 to train. Six years later, he moved to California to train under the renowned coach Frank Carroll. (Carroll is also coaching Gracie Gold in the ladies singles competition.) This season has been a difficult one for Ten. He has battled an array of injuries and withdrew from the 2013 Skate America because of an infection. — MARY PILON As we get nearer the top skaters, the choices of music will become a bit more conservative. In the next set, we’ll be hearing Shostakovich, Rodrigo, Strauss, Stravinsky and … Afro Celt Sound System featuring Robert Plant? OK, an interesting clash of styles awaits us. — VICTOR MATHER Brian Joubert of France will be the second skater up in Group Three. He was a big deal about seven years ago, when he was the world champion and cleaning up on European championships. He’s now 29, and this is probably his last Olympics. But he still has star power, according to this article, especially among women. — JOANNE C. Kevin Reynolds is the first Canadian skater, to be followed by the reigning world champion, Patrick Chan. The Canadians are very serious about their winter sports and have long been a skating powerhouse. There are a fair number of them roaming the Olympic Park in maple leaf gear, too, and taking a break from curling and hockey to attend figure skating here tonight. Yet, strangely enough, a gold medal in the men’s singles competition has eluded them. Can Reynolds or Chan break the curse? You know, no pressure. — MARY PILON Ice resurfacing time! Here’s an article that John Branch wrote about Zambonis in 2009. The Times was ON IT. — MARY PILON Group Three will be the following skaters, in order: Denis Ten of Kazakhstan, Brian Joubert of France, Alexander Majorov of Sweden, Michal Brezina of the Czech Republic, Yan Han of China and Tatsuki Machida of Japan. — JOANNE C. GERSTNER And the judges have ruled: Reynolds had some under-rotations. Score of 153.47 for free, 222.23 for total. Leader board after two groups: Tomas Verner of the Czech Republic is in first (232.99), the American Jeremy Abbott is second (232.70) and Kevin Reynolds is third (222.23). — JOANNE C. GERSTNER  Oh, Kevin Reynolds of Canada. I really want to like your crazy shirt, but I can’t. Having one sleeve long and blue, and the other white and short equals visual pain. Thankfully, Reynolds’s skating was better than his shirt selection. He nailed three quads, and made them look easy. The upgrade Reynolds needs to explore is making his program elements feel real, and not time fillers between his beloved (and really good) jumps. If he gets it all together, he will be a force in the next Olympics. But now, hold the phone: the I.S.U. technical committee is reviewing two of the three quads for under-rotation. Bust out the super slo-mo! He is getting credit for only one quad. — JOANNE C. GERSTNER I have to admit, all of these guys look a little lonely in the kiss and cry after watching the clown-car version in the team event earlier this week. And I miss the German cowbell. — MARY PILON  We’re getting into a group of skaters who have a mathematical shot of winning a bronze medal, but it requires absolute perfection. No bobbles, no step-outs. Tomas Verner, in 13th place before the long program, took himself out of the improbable chase, botching the opening jumping pass. — JOANNE C. GERSTNER Florent Amodio is in all-out tears as he finishes, which just makes the audience clap for him louder. In the nosebleeds are a handful of fans with French flags, waving. His total score of 198.64 is a bit to cry about. He sits in fourth place, with 13 skaters to go. — MARY PILON Remember in the 1970s when prog rock bands decided they wanted to be serious musicians and began composing LP-length symphonic works? We’re looking at you, King Crimson. Well, the trend never entirely ended. The 1990s’ alt-rock band Muse tried their hand with something called “Exogenesis: Symphony.” And the American Jeremy Abbott has chosen it for his long program. It starts out as a sweet little piano piece, then the guitars and drums join in, and … hey, it’s not too bad. A pleasant surprise. And after we watched a Ukrainian skate to “West Side Story” and an Uzbek to Little Richard, it’s nice to see Florent Amodio of France skate to the classic Parisian sounds of Edith Piaf’s “La Vie en Rose.” — VICTOR MATHER Florent Amodio opens with a sad mime face, which elicits laughs from the crowd. He, too, will try to express himself without using words. Très French. — MARY PILON And this ends well for Jeremy Abbott — 160.12 score for free, a season’s best. He moves into first with a 232.70. Abbott and his coaches, Yuko Sato and Jason Dunjen of the Detroit Skating Club, all are happy. Nice to see Abbott pleased with himself. — JOANNE C. GERSTNER  Crowd gives hearty applause for Abbott, who became the latest skater to do the new, apparently trendy slap-ice-with-the-hand move. He just looks relieved to be done, nods at his coach as he glides off the ice. — MARY PILON Jeremy Abbott went out on the ice, after a final word with his coaches, with a smile. And he finished his classy free skate with a smile and a fist pump. He nailed all of his jumps, taking down the quad toe that doomed him in the short to a triple in the free. But this wasn’t about scoring and being in medal contention. It was about skating for himself now, and being strong on the ice. And Abbott can walk away from Sochi with the satisfaction that he ended on a great note. — JOANNE C. GERSTNER After crashing on his opening jump, a quad, in his short program, Jeremy Abbott turned that jump into a triple for his long program. It’s self-preservation for sure. He also has no chance to win a medal, so no use injuring himself further. — LYNN ZINSER There is a real softness and grace to Jorik Hendrickx’s skating. He’s not attacking the ice, but gliding over it. Landing the triple axel was his issue in this free skate, as both attempts ended in a wonky landing. He stayed on his feet, despite being tilted in the air from the first rotation. He moves into first with a personal best of 141.42. Total score of 214.04. — JOANNE C. GERSTNER  Misha Ge made things lively. He dyed his hair a shade of Kool-Aid red. He really got into the music, especially at the end when Little Richard’s “Tutti Frutti” kicked in. Ge had some groove going, and hello, landed all of his jumps. Too bad he can’t get extra credit from the judges for joyfully dancing while thanking the crowd. At last, somebody having fun in Sochi on the ice! He scored 135.19, for a total of 203.26 — a new personal best. He’s in first place now. — JOANNE C. GERSTNER Misha Ge has definitely won the clap-o-meter thus far and even had some cheers once “Tutti Frutti” started playing. The thrust and strut as he exited the ice was a hit, too. The night is still young, and the cute little girls on skates still have many bouquets to pick up. — MARY PILON Coming up next: Misha Ge of Uzbekistan, Jorik Hendrickx of Belgium, Jeremy Abbott of the United States, Florent Amodio of France, Tomas Verner of the Czech Republic and Kevin Reynolds of Canada. — JOANNE C. GERSTNER  The first set of six skaters ends with Viktor Romanenkov of Estonia. What single piece of music has been performed to by more figure skaters than any other? No one knows the answer to this mystery, but we’re willing to bet it’s “Carmen.” Romanenkov has chosen this standby and has even dressed like a bullfighter. We’re hopeful that the Czech skating later to the “Sherlock Holmes” score will come out in a deerstalker hat. — VICTOR MATHER Victor Romanenkov of Estonia broke skating’s unwritten rule and skated to “Carmen.” And no, he did not do it well enough to evoke Debi Thomas or Katarina Witt. He looked passive, fell twice, popped two jumps, downgraded triples to doubles, and appeared to give up near the end of the program. Shakiest performance so far. As expected, Romanenkov’s scores are dismal: 78.44 for free, total of 139.99. — JOANNE C. GERSTNER  It is all about the details — big and small: the hand down on a jump landing, a step out, or the Humpty Dumpty save. Abdal Rakimgaliev of Kazakhstan still put together a charming program despite some miscues. He stayed on his feet, even with a near-miss spill on a triple axel landing, and seemed pretty pleased with his skate. He came into the free skate in 20th. He scores 110.22, for a total of 174.20. The mark is far from his personal and season best. The little things cost you. — JOANNE C. GERSTNER  Abzal Rakimgaliev of Kazakhstan, our fifth skater, is the first to turn to that popular skating staple, the movie score. The film is “Once Upon a Time in America,” a 1984 gangster film that was supposed to be another “Godfather,” but fell flat despite the talents of Sergio Leone, Robert De Niro, Joe Pesci and others. But while DVDs of the film are buried deep in discount bins, the flute-heavy score by Ennio Morricone is getting its day on the world stage. — VICTOR MATHER  Follow along with who’s next with the official skating order. Zoltan Kelemen of Romania had a rough skate, falling three times on jumps, and had a few wonky landings on others. He, like the earlier skaters, looked slow and lacked flow. He scrunched his eyes when he finished, as if to say, “Whew, glad that’s over.” — JOANNE C. GERSTNER It’s about as crazy of a concept as you can think of: teaching yourself all the jumps in skating, and ending up in the Olympics. Michael Christian Martinez of the Philippines, at 17, is the lone representative of his country — and yes, taught himself a lot of the jumps he just executed pretty well in the free skate. He is quite flexible and athletic, and even pulled off a Biellmann spin, the one where you pop a leg straight over the head and hold the skate. Not something men normally can — or even want — to do. He scored 119.44, for a total of 184.25. — JOANNE C. GERSTNER Having the men’s short and free programs on consecutive days could be taking a toll on younger, less experienced, or not as well-conditioned skaters. Yakov Godorozha was gasping for air in the last minute of his 4-minute-30-second program, and his carving into step sequencing shallowed. Those are not good things. He scored a 118.54, for a total score of 182.19, 7 points off his season best. — JOANNE C. GERSTNER The first fall came early in the first skater Alexei Bychenko’s program. It’s no secret that watching a figure skater fall at the Olympics is completely devastating. But what’s worse is hearing the crowd’s collective gasp when it happens. Something tells me NBC mutes that audio for the TV broadcast. Perhaps that’s for the best. It’s unclear where the large snow leopard and bunny rabbit that were in the stands, perhaps strays from a Flaming Lips concert, have wandered. — MARY PILON That orange, in person, is construction cone orange. Electric tangerine. Neon Tang. Blinding. But the crowd seems into it. — MARY PILON Alexei Bychenko has gotten the free skate started. He came in 22nd after the short program, and turned in a passable long program. He had a step-out on a triple axel and a fall on another jump. His program noticeably slowed as he tired. Bychenko has quite a geographical scope. He is from Ukraine, is skating for Israel and lives in New Jersey. He has a score of 177.06. — JOANNE C. GERSTNER Much of the music tonight will be familiar to the typical listener, if only by causing the “I know that from somewhere” feeling. You’re probably not having that feeling with the first skater, Alexei Bychenko, of Israel. He’s performing to “Nostradamus” by Maksim Mrvica. I’ll save you the trip to Wikipedia. He is a pianist who performs “classical crossover music.” To these ears he sounds like he’s crossing over between Carl Orff and Liberace. — VICTOR MATHER Figure skating, like most events here, has had a mostly Russian crowd. And strangely, there are a LOT of empty seats still, even as a marquee event kicks off. Perhaps that’s a Plushenko-related dropoff? But judging from the dozens of banners hanging in the arena, there’s a serious showing from Japan, which will no doubt give Yuzuru Hanyu some momentum as he takes to the ice later. — MARY PILON Prepare to shield your eyes: Yakov Godorozha of Ukraine, the second skater of the first group, is wearing a frightening combo. He has a traffic-cone orange shirt, with spandex-like pants that are supposed to look like jeans and sequin-studded “pockets.” Yeah. Not good. — JOANNE C. GERSTNER In this first group of skaters is a bit of Filipino Olympic history. Michael Christian Martinez is the first Olympic figure skater from the Philippines and the first Winter Olympian for the country since it sent an Alpine skier to the 1992 Winter Games in Albertville, France. Since the formation of its Olympic committee in 1911, the country has never won an Olympic gold medal. He will be skating to “Malagueña” by Ernesto Lecuona. — MARY PILON The Glimmer twins — Tara Lipinski and Johnny Weir — as NBC’s Terry Gannon called them — are now on the air. And Weir is fashion fabulous as he has been all Olympics, wearing a glittertastic outfit worthy of a Tim Gunn swoon: silver sequined jacket, chunky gold chain. Lipinski went all Valentine’s Day in a red jacket and a pink blouse with red hearts. Let the skating begin! — JOANNE C. GERSTNER In addition to all the talk of axels and lutzes, we’ll be giving you then lowdown on the music the skaters have chosen. Gone are the days of Dick Button, when skating music seldom roamed beyond Tchaikovsky and Johann Strauss. Of the 24 skaters tonight, only seven have chosen classical music, and that includes lighter fare like Gershwin. By our count, six will perform to movie scores, and the other 11 to a wide variety of genres, including standards, dance music, pop, Broadway, and, well, “Riverdance.” The only thing you won’t hear is vocals, which are strictly forbidden. Let us know in the comments whether you prefer your skating to “Carmen” or Carmen Miranda. — VICTOR MATHER The men’s free skate will have layers of drama, especially on the American side. This is most likely the last skate on Olympic ice for the four-time United States champion Jeremy Abbott. He’s 28, and he will leave these Olympics again wondering why he could not perform better under pressure. His recovery from a bad fall off his opening quad in the short program was admirable, but the damage was done. On the other side, Jason Brown, 19, is just starting a potential run of multiple Olympics. Getting to the Olympics, and being in medal contention, is certainly more than even he could have hoped for when he started his first season at the senior level last fall. Brown is like a hot rookie pitcher, just up from Class AAA, who is now starting Game 7 of the World Series. — JOANNE C. GERSTNER You can relive Evgeny Plushenko’s very bad day, via Jere Longman’s article on the men’s short program. If you are handicapping the men’s long program — and if you aren’t, go ahead and give it a try — we have a handy interactive that shows the jump history of the top six contenders. And if you think this gold medal might be won without a quad jump, as it was in 2010 by Evan Lysacek, think again. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Technology   Genevieve Bell on Furby vs. Siri. During a lecture at Stanford University, Ms. Bell, an anthropologist at Intel Labs, compared the Furby toy with Siri, Apple’s personal assistant.          
Travel   In the West, It’s Not Just About the Snow. Advertisement Recent storms have dumped loads of fresh snow in the Western United States, welcome news for the region’s national parks and resorts, many of which have been adding history, wildlife and ecology tours to their usual winter menus. In Colorado, the Rocky Mountain Nature Association has added a “Wintertime Wonders” bus tour to its many educational programs. Passengers will learn about the history and ecology of Rocky Mountain National Park from a cozy seat aboard a heated bus while sipping free hot beverages, as opposed to venturing out on snowshoes or skis, as their usual excursions require. The flexible nature of the tours allows guides to “throw in a little of everything,” Rachel Balduzzi, the association’s field seminar director, said, including the history of the park’s formation and how the animals are adapting to the winter environment. ($200 for up to four adults; $50 for each additional adult; and $25 for children 12 and younger: rmna.org.) Spring Creek Ranch, a resort in Jackson Hole, Wyo., has taken a more upscale approach to its winter safaris this season, packaging two nights at the resort with a snow coach tour through Yellowstone National Park, where passengers will spend a night at Old Faithful Snow Lodge. Stephen Price, the resort’s owner, said in an email that a benefit is that there are virtually no other visitors in the park, making for a more intimate experience. ($1,450 per person for double occupancy; $1,988 for single; springcreekranch.com). Single-day “Wildlife Escapes” are also available through Spring Creek. They include a snow coach safari, a sleigh ride through the National Elk Refuge and admission to the National Museum of Wildlife Art. ($195; $175 for children 12 and younger.) In Montana, the Yellowstone Association Institute has been hosting a variety of both private and public tours and seminars for many winters, the most exciting of which might be snowshoeing the north range of the park in search of wolves to observe. While the institute’s Wolf Week in March offers even more opportunities to learn about these animals, a new “Wildlife Weekend Escape,” offered on specific dates throughout the season, teaches visitors how to listen for and observe all types of animals, and includes several viewing excursions into Lamar Valley, where bull elk, bald eagles, bighorn sheep, bison and coyotes are also known to roam. ($220, not including lodging or park passes: yellowstoneassociation.org.) In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Business   Passing Grades. Advertisement By Yaakov Ben-David Feb 16, 2014 The New York Times Crossword is available through subscription only. SUNDAY’S PUZZLE — It’s always a relief when you find out the teacher is grading on a curve, and that’s precisely what Yaakov BenDavid has for us today. You wouldn’t want to get all the way to the end of your solving week just to find out that you had failed. Our F’s have been changed to D’s, thank goodness, and the result is familiar phrases changed and then clued punnily. Of the theme phrases, my favorites were TWO DIVES FOR A TEN, DISH AND CHIPS, and DAIRY GODMOTHER, although I was a little less comfortable with the Stephen Hawking reference in SCIENCE DICTION. Outside of the theme, there’s a good amount of fresh and crunchy stuff in Mr. BenDavid’s grid, like JOB SEARCH, LOOSE TEA, LOVE NEST, BED OF ROSES, MUSCLE CELL and BLONDE ALE, which I got from the crossings, having never heard of Duvel (I’m not a beer drinker.) I could have lived without JILTERS and I still think that NERFS is not really something that can be pluralized (isn’t it really NERF balls?), but other than that, a nice Sunday outing. Let’s catch up with Mr. BenDavid: Once again, I’m thrilled to be published in The New York Times, my fifth puzzle. In my previous puzzles — all Sundays — I never had as few as six theme answers, as in today’s offering. Having only six meant I could spread them out more, and I had much more fun/leeway filling in the nontheme answers. I love choosing interesting or rarely seen long nontheme answers and then filling in the shorter answers around them. Among the 17 nontheme answers of eight letters or more, we have BED OF ROSES, AGITATING, COMO ESTA and LOVE NEST. DAIRY GODMOTHER was the seed; my original clue — which made my family laugh — was “She might make you a cheesecake you can’t refuse.” The clue was changed by Will, keeping it one hop away from the original phrase instead of two. My first idea for a clue for SCIENCE DICTION was “Exceptional quality of Sir Patrick Stewart’s Captain Picard,” but you might have had to be a Trekkie to get it; I think Will’s Stephen Hawking clue works quite well. The first few versions of the puzzle — there were over 20 — had a seventh theme answer stretching across the middle row, but I found that it made everything too crowded and led to very weak fill (and something like 24 three-letter words). It was clued “Lament of the Best-in-Show runners-up at Westminster” with the answer: WE HAVEN’T THE DOGGIEST. Pity I couldn’t fit it in since coincidentally the puzzle appears the same week as the dog show. Thanks to Wordplay, it has seen the light of day. CLORIS Leachman is one of the most underrated comic actresses, in my opinion, and here she is as the horse-frightening Frau Blücher (neigh!): Your thoughts? Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… David Poole has something up his sleeve.Read more… Jacob Stulberg is all wet. Don’t tell him I said that.Read more… The return of John Westwig.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   Obama Promises New Aid to Jordan in Refugee Crisis. Advertisement Advertisement By SARAH WHEATON and MARK LANDLERFEB. 14, 2014 RANCHO MIRAGE, Calif. — President Obama announced during a meeting here Friday night with King Abdullah II of Jordan that he would seek to renew a five-year aid package to help Jordan bear the burden of the more than 600,000 Syrian refugees who have fled the civil war there. Mr. Obama, amid broader discussions with King Abdullah about the stalemate in Syria, also announced that the United States would guarantee $1 billion in loans to help keep Jordan’s wavering economy afloat.  The president briefly outlined that aid package as he spoke to reporters at Sunnylands, the Southern California estate where Mr. Obama met with the king for 2 hours and 15 minutes over what the White House called a working dinner. Calling the Jordanians “very generous,” Mr. Obama said, “It’s very important for us to make sure that we’re supportive of the kingdom in accommodating all these refugees.” Mr. Obama’s discussions with the Jordanian king are part of an intensive diplomatic outreach to the Middle East over the next month, as the United States conducts risky negotiations with Iran over its nuclear program, gropes for a political solution to the fighting in Syria, and tries to nudge the Israelis and the Palestinians toward a peace agreement. Advertisement Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel will make a trip the White House on March 3, and Mr. Obama is scheduled to meet with King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia and, possibly, other Persian Gulf leaders during a visit there. In their talks Friday, the president and Jordan’s King Abdullah discussed a vast range of regional issues, including the Middle East peace process, administration officials said. But the dominant issue was Syria, whose civil war has placed heavy burdens on its neighbor. Syrians are only the latest group to seek the relative stability provided by Jordan, which has also taken in large numbers of people fleeing fighting in Iraq and Sudan in recent years. The United States aid package, which expires in September, has been valued at $660 million a year.   President Barack Obama meets with King Abdullah II to pledge $1 billion in loan guarantees for Jordan and to consider new ways to pressure the regime of President Bashar al-Assad of Syria. Jordan’s economic problems have been made worse by militants’ attacks on a natural gas pipeline from Egypt, which has been in upheaval since the Arab Spring uprising in 2011. It is not the first time that Mr. Obama has used Sunnylands — a 200-acre estate built by Walter H. Annenberg, the publisher, philanthropist and ambassador who died in 2002 — as a diplomatic backdrop. Last year, he hosted President Xi Jinping of China at Sunnylands for a two-day meeting that was noted for its unusual informality and was interpreted as a milestone in their nations’ often tense and generally stilted four-decade diplomatic history. Sunnylands is “conducive to a conversation” between Mr. Obama and King Abdullah, “given all the issues they face and given their warm relationship,” said Eric Schultz, a White House spokesman. Mr. Obama will be staying at the estate through Sunday — the canary-yellow master bedroom is equipped with speakers that pipe in the songs of the birds outdoors. Advertisement The president arrived at the Palm Springs International Airport about 7:30 p.m. Pacific Time on a day when the temperature hovered around 90 degrees. Hours earlier, Mr. Obama delivered remarks in Fresno, Calif., more than 300 miles to the north, about the federal response to California’s severe drought. The water shortage has placed extra scrutiny on usage here in the Coachella Valley, where intensive irrigation has transformed the desert scrubland into lush lawns and golf courses. Palm Springs residents use 736 gallons of water per day, among the highest usage rate in the state, according to a state database. The president has no public events scheduled beyond the meeting with King Abdullah, and he is expected to spend much of the time golfing. (He does not have to go far for a quick fix: Sunnylands has a nine-hole course.) King Abdullah arrived here on Thursday, and visited with Gov. Jerry Brown of California ahead of Mr. Obama’s arrival. “Meeting with the King of Jordan to discuss drought, the efficient use of water and renewable energy,” Mr. Brown said in a tweet that included a photo of the two on a sunny path, in unnecessary blazers. Sarah Wheaton reported from Rancho Mirage, Calif., and Mark Landler from Washington. A version of this article appears in print on February 15, 2014, on page A8 of the New York edition with the headline: Syria Is Expected to Be Main Topic as Obama Meets With King of Jordan. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Home   From Hugo França, Nature Sculpted. Advertisement Advertisement By STEPHEN MILIOTIFEB. 14, 2014 The Brazilian designer Hugo França reclaims felled wood from the rainforest to create sculptural furniture. Hugo França was working as an industrial engineer for a computer company in São Paulo, in his native Brazil, when in 1981, at the age of 26, he moved to Trancoso, in the northeastern coastal area of Bahia, to live among the indigenous Pataxó people. The move was prompted by a love of nature, but it eventually led him to a new career as a wood sculptor. Today Mr. França is lauded for his furniture made of burned pequi wood left over from deforestation. Though the practice is now outlawed, large areas of rain forest were cleared in the 1960s and ’70s for agriculture and cattle grazing. Using techniques he learned from the Pataxó, Mr. França grants these scarred materials new life on a scale as grand as the pequi itself (the trees routinely reach 150 feet in height and 10 feet in diameter). The pieces are exhibited worldwide, most recently at the R & Company gallery in New York, which showed Mr. França’s chaise longue made from a Pataxó canoe. A group of his sculptural pieces is on view through May at the Fairchild Tropical Botanic Garden in Coral Gables, Fla. Go to Home Page »
Sports   Oshie Lifts U.S. Over Russia in Hockey Shootout. Advertisement The United States defeated Russia, 3-2, in a shootout in men’s hockey at the Sochi Olympics. The most anticipated hockey game of the Olympics so far was as close as expected. Pavel Datsyuk scored twice for Russia, once to give the host country a 1-0 lead and then to tie the score in the third period. Russia appeared to score the go-ahead goal late in the third period, but it was waved off because the net was slightly off its moorings. After a five-minute overtime failed to produce a winner, the game went to a shootout, where it became the T.J. Oshie Show. He took six of the Americans’ eight shots, scoring on four of them, and the United States capitalized on great stops by Jonathan Quick for the win. As we mentioned earlier, the ramifications of this game to the tournament may be minimal. The U.S. earned 2 points, and Russia 1, in the standings. The Americans lead Group A with 5 points. Russia has 4. Both teams play Sunday as group play wraps up. If the U.S. beats Slovenia, it will receive a bye into the quarterfinals. If Russia defeats Slovakia in regulation, it will have 7 points, which would be enough to also earn a bye if the Canada-Finland game Sunday ends in regulation. Why was T.J. Oshie shooting so many times? Because he is among the best in the N.H.L. in the shootout. He has scored on 7 of his 10 shootout attempts this season. T.J. Oshie: “I was glad it ended when it did. I was running out of moves.” — Chris Johnston (@reporterchris) 15 Feb 14 At the beginning of these Games, The Times’ Jere Longman wrote about Warroad, Minn., where T.J. Oshie went to high school. It is known as Hockeytown USA because it has produced eight Olympic hockey players. The first seven have won medals. Oshie is the eighth. Taking his sixth shot of the shootout, Oshie converts again to give the U.S. a 3-2 win. On the seventh shot of the shootout, a sprawling Quick stops Kovalchuk. Oshie tries to go backhand this time and misses. We are still tied, 2-2. Datsyuk tries to go five-hole on Quick and fails. The T.J. Oshie Show continues. He hits it off the crossbar and in. Kovalchuk absolutely freezes Quick to put Russia up again. Oshie, given another chance, scores to tie it up. Datsyuk gives Russia the lead Oshie, naturally, shoots again for the U.S. Tries to lull Bobrovsky to sleep, but Oshie misses the net. Order switches after three rounds. Kovalchuk doesn’t get it this time. Kovalchuk keeps it simple and scores for Russia to tie it, 1-1. Pavelski makes a lot of moves, but can’t get it past Bobrovsky. Brilliant glove save by Quick on a Datsyuk backhand. U.S. still up, 1-0, after two rounds. Van Riemsdyk is stopped by Bobrovsky. Quick got a piece of Malkin’s shot. U.S. up, 1-0, after first round. T.J. Oshie, a shootout specialist, goes first for the U.S. and scores. The teams will alternate shooters for three rounds. If they are still tied, the teams can re-use shooters. We are headed to a shootout to decide this. Both teams have earned 1 point. The winner will get another one. Patrick Kane is a two-time Stanley Cup winner and perhaps the best American forward in the N.H.L., but he is a bit snakebitten in the Olympics. He had another great chance with 28 seconds left in overtime, just after Quick made another brilliant save on Alex Ovechkin. Patrick Kane was stopped by Bobrovsky on a breakaway that seemed as if it was going to end the game with just under 3 minutes remaining. The U.S. got too neat on its remaining power play, and Datsyuk nearly scored shorthanded before the power play expired. U.S. is on the power play, which means it will be 4-on-3 to begin the five-minute sudden-death overtime. If we are still tied after five minutes, we will go to a shootout. Ryan Kesler, who may have a broken finger from blocking a shot, has been dominating face-offs, particularly in the U.S. offensive zone. It helped the U.S get a few scoring chances on the power play, but the Americans could not convert as the period ended. The U.S still has about 30 seconds of power play in overtime. Yevgeny Medvedev takes an interference penalty to give the American a power play with 1:32 left in the third. The U.S. takes a timeout to set things up. The Americans’ two goals have come on the power play. According to NBCSN, the goal did not count because the net was not in place. And we’re talking inches here. That is a difference in the rules between Olympic hockey and N.H.L. hockey. Am hearing that the Russians have asked for video review of the Miracle on Ice — Christopher Clarey (@christophclarey) 15 Feb 14 Seconds after Datsyuk nearly completed a hat trick and Kovalchuk had a great chance, Tyutin appeared to break the tie with 4:40 left in the game. It was waved off after a video review for no clear reason. High stick? Did it not actually go in the net? Net loose as Tyutin blasts it past Quick. Weird play, Quick barely moved for it. Goal waved off. USA got *very* lucky. #Sochi2014 — Ben Rothenberg (@BenRothenberg) 15 Feb 14 On the power play, Pavel Datsyuk scores his second goal, from the left face-off circle, with 7:16 left in the game. Alexander Radulov — yes, him again — was screening Quick on the play. With Russia charging, Dustin Brown takes a kneeing penalty 12:26 into the third. Joe Pavelski scores off a great cross-ice pass from Patrick Kane to give the U.S. the lead with 10:29 left in the third. Oh, look, Alexander Radulov is in the penalty box again. He is called for hooking with 11:33 left in the game. This worked out very well for the U.S. the last time. Good to know that Russians are just as cheesy as Americans when it comes to what’s on the JumboTron. The Kiss Cam is going strong. Smooch! — Juliet Macur (@JulietMacur) 15 Feb 14 Russia was methodical on this power play, and the results were better. Still they did not score. Datsyuk somehow missed the net on a close-range shot, with the far side of the goal wide open. Malkin had several great chances, but Quick had a brilliant glove save on one. Dustin Brown is called for interference 3:14 into the third. He is not happy about the call. Might have been a dive. Rather than scoring, Alex Ovechkin may just be trying to eliminate the competition. Ryan McDonagh and Ryan Kesler were shaken up by Ovi shots on the power play in the second period, and McDonagh got nailed again by Ovechkin on the power play to start the third. But it was a good kill for the U.S., allowing no shots. The American goal scorer Cam Fowler is the youngest player on the ice for the United States at 22. He is also, gasp, Canadian. He was born in Windsor, Ontario, to a Canadian father and American mother, and moved to Michigan as a toddler. He was a first-round draft pick by Anaheim in 2010, selected 12th over all. Fowler has been blogging from Sochi for the Los Angeles Times. Russia was in control of the game, taking a 1-0 lead on a Pavel Datsyuk goal 9:15 into the second. It was a typical Datsyuk goal, with him skating beautifully through American defenders. But Alexander Radulov took a dumb cross-checking penalty with about five minutes left in the period. He knocked over Dustin Brown far away from the play. The U.S., which hadn’t generated much offense in the period up to that point, capitalized. James van Riemsdyk of Middletown, N.J., was a spark, but Cam Fowler, a 22-year-old defenseman for the Anaheim Ducks, got the goal, which went in off his skate. The U.S. faces a dangerous beginning to the third period, with Russia on the power play. Alex Ovechkin has been brilliant on Russia’s first two power plays, but does not yet have a goal. He’s been too good to be kept scoreless for long. Patrick Kane was called for hooking with less than a second left in the second period. Russia will start the third period on the power play, putting the U.S. in a tight spot. Cam Fowler, the American goal scorer, feel down in the middle of the ice and turned the puck over, which sent Evgeni Malkin streaking toward the U.S. net. But Fowler was bailed out by Kevin Shattenkirk and T.J. Oshie. Fowler’s goal went in off his skate, so it had to be reviewed to see if there was a distinct kicking motion, which is not allowed. There was not, so the goal stands. James van Riemsdyk, the Maple Leafs forward, has been the best player on offense for the U.S. He had two brilliant chances in the power play, and then a great pass to set up a goal by Cam Fowler with 3:46 left in the second. Alexander Radulov takes a run at Dustin Brown away from the play and gets called for it. Karen Crouse notes that the first assist on Datsyuk’s goal was credited to Andrei Markov. Datsyuk and Markov are the only two players in the game who were alive in February 1980, when that thing happened that everyone keeps talking about. With the U.S. down 1-0 to Russia in this preliminary round hockey game, kind of feels like we are losing the Cold War, doesn’t it? — Justin Sablich (@JSablichNYT) 15 Feb 14 If you thought the ice was big before, four-on-four hockey made it look like a frozen Great Lake. There were few chances for either team. Off-setting penalties for cross checking on Backes and Tyutin. Ryan Kesler is back in the game for the U.S. Seconds after James Van Riemsdyk has the best American chance in a while, Pavel Datsyuk gets into open ice and weaves through three American defensemen to beat Quick, rattling the puck off the post and giving Russia the lead. I believe that every Russian flag made in the past 20 years is here at US-Russia hockey game in #Sochi. Russia just scored to make it, 1-0. — Juliet Macur (@JulietMacur) 15 Feb 14 Ryan Kesler had to go to the locker room with the trainer after taking a hard shot to his left hand during the penalty kill. That would be a tough loss for the U.S. Ovechkin played all two minutes of Russia’s first power play and played all of the second one, too. He was electric, with three great chances, hitting the post at least once. Ryan McDonagh and Ryan Kesler each took hard shots to their bodies during the penalty kill, McDonagh in the back and Kesler in the hand. #Russia comes up empty during two-minute power play. Crowd in #Sochi fired up, now doing the wave. — David M. Herszenhorn (@herszenhorn) 15 Feb 14 After a brilliant chance by Paul Stastny, Max Pacioretty took a penalty to put Russia on the power play again. Slovenia beat Slovakia, 3-1, earlier today, the first ever win at the Olympics for the Slovenes. Russia’s 5-2 victory over Slovenia on Thrusday, which was close until the third period, caused quite a bit of hand-wringing among the Russian news media. But maybe that game said more about Slovenia than Russia. It’s possible that the Americans’ 7-1 victory over Slovakia also said more about the Slovakians than the Americans. The U.S. fails to score on the remaining power play that started the second period. Since 1980, the United States is 1-2-1 vs Russia in the Olympics. Meetings have been frequent lately. This is the fourth time in four Olympics the teams have played. Russia beat the U.S., 5-4, in group play in Turin in 2006. In the 2002 Salt Lake Games, the teams tied, 2-2, in group play, then the U.S. won, 3-2, in the semifinals. Genius marketing scheme by FX: the U.S. broadcast on NBCSN is littered with commercials for the new season of “The Americans,” a show about Russian spies posing as an American suburban family in the 1980s. Just a refresher: Olympic hockey and N.H.L. hockey have slightly different rules. Jeff Z. Klein and Stu Hackel broke them down here. Even in the Olympics I still think it’s dumb that home teams in hockey wear dark colors. — Sam Borden (@SamBorden) 15 Feb 14 It has been a very physical game so far, resembling an N.H.L. game at times. There are 41 N.H.L. players in this game. Fourteen American players have an N.H.L. teammate on the Russian squad. Max Pacioretty was even involved in a scrum with Montreal Canadiens teammate Alexei Emelin. American goalie Jonathan Quick has been tested a lot and has been excellent. At the end of first period, the game is scoreless. Russia outshot the U.S., 13-10, but the Americans closed that gap in the final minute with a power play. The U.S. will continue on that power play for the first 1:23 of the second period. After a sizzling start by both teams, the U.S. has not been able to sustain much offensive pressure as the first period goes on. But the Americans are going on the power play in the final seconds of the period as Ilya Nikulin goes off for holding. Russia has tilted the ice in its favor in the latter part of the first period. The Russians thought they had a goal on a great play by Alexander Semin, but Quick held firm. Very strong penalty kill for the United States against a Russian power play. Russia got off two shots. Blake Wheeler is going to the penalty box for tripping. Russia goes on the power play. Very lively early on, with hard checks and blistering pace on offense. The best American chance came from Ryan Callahan. Pavel Datsyuk was stopped in close by Jonathan Quick. Russia has five shots, U.S. four. Was minimal checking during #Russia – #Slovenia hockey match on Thursday. Today, #Russia – #USA are slamming each other at every chance — David M. Herszenhorn (@herszenhorn) 15 Feb 14 Rangers fans will not be surprised to see Ryan Callahan, their captain, mixing it up around the net after his shot was stopped. David Backes of the Blues, also known for physical play, joined in the fun. A “gathering of the clans” as Pierre McGuire called it. Russia scored two goals in the first four minutes against Slovenia. No goals through four minutes in today, though there were several good chances. Significant fact: the U.S. is the designated home team for this game, which seems ridiculous. But it’s not merely symbolic. It means the U.S. has the last line change, so American Coach Dan Bylsma can create the matchups he want on the ice. He shuffled defensive pairings in practice Friday. Paul Martin and Brooks Orpik, who play for Bylsma in Pittsburgh, are expected to be one unit, matched up against the top Russian line of Alex Ovechkin, Evgeni Malkin and Alexander Semin. Ryan Suter and Ryan McDonagh will be another pair, expected to be on the ice against the line of Ilya Kovalchuk, Pavel Datsyuk and Alexander Radulov. NBCSN just finished up an Al Michaels interview on the Miracle on Ice, as I predicted. I will try to limit my mentions of the Miracle on Ice, but just so you know, there are three connections to that game in this game. American defenseman Ryan Suter’s father, Bob, played in the game. Russia Coach Zinetula Bilyaletdinov also played in the game. Russian forward Viktor Tikhonov’s grandfather was the coach for the Soviet Union. Karen Crouse reports from the Bolshoy Ice Dome that the U.S. did not come out for warmups until the fifth minute of the warmup session. In stands above the goal where U.S. was shooting two women were stoically holding a large Russian flag with an angry bear and the words “The Red Machine is Back.” Significant fact: the U.S. is the designated home team for this game, which seems ridiculous. But it’s not merely symbolic. It means the U.S. has the last line change, so American Coach Dan Bylsma can create the matchups he wants on the ice by changing lines whenever Russia does. Because of that, Bylsma shuffled defensive pairings in practice Friday. Paul Martin and Brooks Orpik, who play for Bylsma in Pittsburgh, are expected to be one unit, matched up against the top Russian line of Alex Ovechkin, Evgeni Malkin and Alexander Semin. Ryan Suter and Ryan McDonagh will be another pair, expected to be on the ice against the line of Ilya Kovalchuk, Pavel Datsyuk and Alexander Radulov. USA vs Russia about 15 minutes away. With so many NHL players, I can’t wait to see all the fights. — John Branch (@JohnBranchNYT) 15 Feb 14 What does the game mean? Well, everything and nothing. It’s a game that the teams and their fans very much want to win, and it is no doubt the most high profile game of the preliminary round. But it’s still only a preliminary round game. Its significance is in the standings, not the medal table just yet. You only need to look to the 2010 Olympics. The United States beat Canada in group play, helping send the Canadians on a more difficult path through the elimination rounds. The United States and Canada ended up meeting again in the final, with the Canadians winning. The winner of Saturday’s game is likely to earn an automatic berth to the quarterfinals. The top four teams in group play advance to the quarterfinals. Sweden, undefeated in a weak group C, would secure the first spot with a win over Latvia on Saturday. The other eight teams enter a playoff for the final four quarterfinal spots. There is a possibility that even the loser of the U.S.-Russia game could earn a quarterfinal berth and avoid the playoff round. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
U.S.   Legacy of L.B.J.. “The agony of Vietnam looms over all of us,” said Luci Baines Johnson, who argues that the war overshadowed the domestic achievements of her father, President Lyndon B. Johnson.          
Business   There, There. Advertisement By David Gray Feb 17, 2014 The New York Times Crossword is available through subscription only. MONDAY’S PUZZLE — This is only David Gray’s second time out in The New York Times, and here he is, telling us what to SAY. Should we repeat after him? Why not? He’s hinting that the word SAY can go before the starts of the theme entries in his puzzle to make other familiar phrases, and they’re all pretty good: SAY UNCLE, SAY NO MORE, SAY CHEESE and SAY WHAT. There seemed to be a plethora of three-letter words, but the solve was smooth, so I really have no complaints. Some of the fill I liked included CHEESE CURLS (pro tip: Keep a wet wipe near your computer keyboard when eating these to avoid turning your keyboard orange), WHAT A JOKE, ALL-STARS and ETCETERA. Let’s moonwalk over to the Tuesday puzzle with this throwback video: Your thoughts? Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… David Poole has something up his sleeve.Read more… Jacob Stulberg is all wet. Don’t tell him I said that.Read more… The return of John Westwig.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   Bollywood Superstar’s Movie Gets Tangled in Electoral Politics. Advertisement   But for the Bollywood superstar Salman Khan, the way his most recent film, “Jai Ho,” earned 1 billion rupees, or $16 million, is seen by his critics as a failure — proof, they say, that he has alienated Muslims, who make up a large part of his fan base, with his recent appearances with Narendra Modi of the Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party. Born to a Muslim father and a Hindu mother, Mr. Khan, 48, routinely draws 1 billion rupees with his films in the opening weekend alone. But “Jai Ho,” an action film about a former Indian Army major who turns into the common man’s hero, took 15 days to reach the 1-billion-rupee mark after opening on Jan. 24, an unusually slow start for a Salman Khan movie. “Salman, your movie is flop because you are with Modi,” wrote one Facebook user on Mr. Khan’s official fan page, echoing many commenters who were upset at the actor’s association with Mr. Modi, the chief minister of Gujarat and a candidate for prime minister. Mr. Modi has come under intense criticism for his handling of the religious riots in his state in 2002, which left more than 1,000 dead, most of them Muslims. Mr. Modi has long denied any wrongdoing, and in December, an Indian court rejected a petition seeking to prosecute him over his role in the riots, saying there wasn’t enough evidence. Mr. Khan has been a longtime supporter of the Congress party, which leads the governing coalition in New Delhi. But on Jan. 14, he dined with Mr. Modi in Gandhinagar, the capital of Gujarat, and was photographed next to the chief minister at the state’s annual kite flying festival. After Mr. Khan’s visit to Gujarat, the state waived the entertainment tax on tickets to “Jai Ho.” In Gujarat, he described Mr. Modi as a “good man” in televised comments and followed up with a television interview in which he said that there was no need for Mr. Modi to apologize for the Gujarat riots because an investigative team appointed by the Supreme Court had cleared him of wrongdoing. The response from Muslims was immediate. Asaduddin Owaisi, the leader of the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen, a Muslim political party based in Hyderabad, called for a boycott of “Jai Ho.” Amjad Ali, 23, a regular commentator on the Salman Khan fan page on Facebook who is from Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, told India Ink that he wouldn’t be watching the movie. “Salman bhai was everything for me,” said Mr. Ali, a tea shop owner, using the Hindi word for brother. “He was my idol, until he justified what Modi did.” Another commenter, Omar Ahmed of Hyderabad, 25, who said he had grown up watching Mr. Khan’s movies, expressed disappointment with his idol, although he did go to see “Jai Ho.” “I am not saying I will give up watching his films, but he will certainly not remain my hero and the reason I would have flocked to his films,” he said. Mr. Khan’s representatives, his brothers Sohail Khan, the director of “Jai Ho,” and Arbaaz Khan, did not respond to repeated requests for comment. The national spokeswoman for the Bharatiya Janata Party, Meenakshi Lekhi, also declined to comment. Nandini Ramnath, the film editor of Mint, a business newspaper, said “Jai Ho,” which was universally panned by critics, would have struggled to match the lofty box-office takes of Mr. Khan’s previous films, even without the controversy. “Modi or no Modi, ‘Jai Ho’ didn’t work wonders because of its subpar writing, lackluster direction, the absence of a credible romantic subplot between the leads and predictability in the extreme,” she said in an email. “The Modi factor might have helped the filmmakers save face, but the fact is that ‘Jai Ho’ wasn’t as entertaining, in the popular sense, as Khan’s previous films. It wasn’t up to the mark, which potential audiences seemed to realize after the opening weekend craze had died down.” However, Mr. Khan’s previous films have also opened to bad reviews, like “Dabangg 2,” and have gone on to become a success, thanks to his sheer star power. Shohini Ghosh, a film studies professor at Jamia Millia Islamia University in New Delhi who is writing a book about Mr. Khan’s influence, said the actor first became a star in the 1990s. Back then, religious tensions were high after militant Hindus destroyed Babri Masjid, a 16th-century mosque, in 1992. Muslim viewers in India, feeling marginalized by the Hindu majority, glommed onto the Muslim actor who played the role of the hero. Now, she said, Mr. Khan’s Muslim fans see his recent remarks about Mr. Modi as a refusal to acknowledge the magnitude of what happened in Gujarat in 2002. “For this reason, many have refused to see ‘Jai Ho,’ ” she said. Dr. Ghosh said many fans were also upset that Mr. Khan took part in the government-organized festival at Saifai, the ancestral village of Uttar Pradesh’s chief minister, Akhilesh Yadav, last month, because Mr. Yadav has been accused of not doing enough to stop the violence between Hindus and Muslims in Muzaffarnagar in September. Thousands of Muslims who fled their villages are still in camps. As in Gujarat, “Jai Ho” received an exemption on the entertainment tax in Uttar Pradesh after Mr. Khan’s appearance. “His comments on NDTV comparing the tragic events of Muzaffarnagar to everyday death in the city show how far away from his fans he is,” she said. But even if the box-office figures for “Jai Ho” are lackluster for a Salman Khan film, it’s still too early to say that the actor’s fortunes have turned. The movie, which has earned 1.1 billion rupees in India as of Thursday, is still likely to turn a profit, no small feat in Bollywood, where relatively few movies actually make money. Also, his sway over the film industry stands firm, as demonstrated by all the Bollywood producers who declined to speak on the record about Mr. Khan, with one saying that he feared antagonizing the star. Raksha Kumar is a freelance writer. Follow her on Twitter @Raksha_Kumar. India’s national elections began April 7 and will continue on nine separate dates until May 12, with results expected to be announced on May 16. The vote is the world’s largest, with 814 million eligible voters set to choose 543 members of the lower house of Parliament. The other two seats will be appointed by the president. This election is widely considered to be India’s most consequential since 1977. India Ink will be moving to the World page of The New York Times. Read more… A memorial ceremony at the Imphal War Cemetery in Manipur to honor the soldiers who died during World War II.Read more… The newly elected prime minister reaches out to the public in a blog post about his first 30 days in office.Read more… Newborns whose mothers are unable to breastfeed are given stored breast milk to protect them from potentially life-threatening infection.Read more… In the final stage of a long decline, Hindustan Motors announced in May that it would suspend production of the Ambassador, a car that was once synonymous with style and status.Read more… This report on India from the journalists of The New York Times and a pool of talented writers in India and beyond provides unbiased, authoritative reporting on the country and its place in the world. India Ink also strives to be a virtual meeting point for discussion of this complex, fast-changing democracy – its politics, economy, culture and everyday life. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Society   Beth Rosen, Maryann King. Advertisement Advertisement FEB. 16, 2014 Beth Susan Rosen and Maryann King are to be married Sunday by Rabbi Sharon A. Kleinbaum at Congregation Habonim in New York. Ms. Rosen (left), 62, is a psychotherapist in New York and an adjunct professor of applied psychology at the City University of New York School of Professional Studies. She graduated from City College of New York and received a master’s degree in social work from Columbia. She is a daughter of the late Lillian Rosen and the late Sidney Rosen, who lived in New York. Ms. King, 64, is an administrator at Congregation Habonim. She graduated from the University of Illinois, Chicago. She is the daughter of the late Mary M. King and the late LaVerne E. King, who lived in Downers Grove, Ill. A version of this article appears in print on February 16, 2014, on page ST17 of the New York edition with the headline: Beth Rosen, Maryann King. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Sports   Victim of Bullying Identified. Advertisement Advertisement By REUTERSFEB. 15, 2014 The former Dolphins lineman Andrew McDonald is the unidentified player named in an N.F.L.-commissioned report as being a victim of bullying in the Miami locker room, his agent said. But the player’s agent, Brett Tessler, said that McDonald, who now plays for the Carolina Panthers, had no problems with the Dolphins. A version of this brief appears in print on February 16, 2014, on page SP12 of the New York edition with the headline: Victim of Bullying Identified. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Travel   36 Hours in Baton Rouge, La.. Advertisement Advertisement 36 Hours By BRENDAN SPIEGEL FEB. 14, 2014 Louisiana’s capital has neither the nonstop party scene nor the obvious cultural charm of its more celebrated neighbor to the southeast, yet this laid-back Mississippi River town offers a unique appeal. The French, Spanish, Creole and Cajun influences of its three-century history blend with the youthful spirit of Louisiana State University’s nearly 30,000 students, stewing up a Southern mélange that’s on full display during Baton Rouge’s own Mardi Gras celebrations, through March 1, as well as events like the Baton Rouge Blues Festival (April 12). Along rural roads and in revitalized downtown neighborhoods, inside strip malls and by industrial sites, this unheralded city reveals a dynamic musical heritage and rich culinary history that demand to be discovered. FRIDAY 1. Blues Clues | 4 p.m. Hidden along a down-on-its-heels stretch just north of downtown, Buddy Stewart Memorial Music Foundation & Rhythm Museum provides a decidedly lowbrow look at the city’s musical history. The sparse, cafeteria-like room is lined with makeshift exhibitions about the band leader Buddy Stewart and local legends like Lazy Lester and Raful Neal. But the real gem is the vintage record collection housed two doors down, separated by a barbershop and behind a sign that reads “Tax Services” — also apparently available here; the shop is overflowing with 45s and 12-inch records from Louisiana bluesmen. 2. High Art | 6 p.m. Transition to a much tonier cultural scene at the 125,000-square-foot Shaw Center for the Arts, the showpiece of a revitalized downtown. The center covers a full city block, encompassing the Manship Theater, where everyone from Branford Marsalis to high school jazz bands have gigs coming up; the LSU Museum of Art, where an exhibition opening March 8 will look at how jazz and the blues influenced Harlem Renaissance artists; and several smaller theaters, galleries and restaurants. During happy hour, Tsunami, a sushi restaurant with a sixth-floor terrace, is popular for sake cocktails ($6) and preshow sunsets. 3. Down to Business | 9 p.m. Restaurant IPO caters to the downtown business crowd, but the atmosphere is more West Village than Wall Street, with exposed brick, unfinished industrial walls and cypress wood furniture. The “Southern tapas” menu offers savory items like deviled eggs mixed with crayfish and tasso — a peppery smoked pork regional specialty — and topped by crispy, batter-fried oysters. Larger plates like pan-roasted Gulf fish are also successful; dinner for two runs $100. SATURDAY 4. Pancakes and Pork | 9 a.m. A popular food truck turned brick-and-mortar spot, GoYaYa’s Crepes operates from a stand at the Main Street Market, a collection of local food businesses organized inside a downtown parking garage. Thin, crispy pancakes are stuffed with inventive options like Vietnamese-style shredded pork with bean sprouts ($7.50), plus seasonal specials such as pulled pork and peaches, matching what’s ripe at the year-round Saturday morning Red Stick Farmers Market (redstickfarmersmarket.org), held just outside the building. Advertisement 5. Artisan Central | 11 a.m. A scrap metal dragon and giant mermaid guard the exterior of Circa 1857, an art, antiques and architectural salvage store surrounded by many dozens of pieces from a self-taught welding artist named Joseph Jilbert. Take home something smaller, like a Master Lock tree frog ($100), then explore the rest of the artsy multistore compound. Shop for upscale crafts items like a driftwood bird’s nest chandelier ($1,025) at Mosaic Garden (mosaicgarden.biz); listen to banjo music over sweet tea at Yvette Marie’s Cafe (bonannos.com); and browse reworked vintage jewelry and dish towel aprons ($22) at My Louise (225-448-2093). 6. Fish Fry | 1 p.m. “Swimming on This End. Fried on the Other End,” reads the sign at Tony’s Seafood Market & Deli where fresh specimens are pulled out of the catfish tank on one side of the store and served on po’boys ($6.49) at the other. If you’re averse to the popular option of parking lot dining here, hop back in the car and take your lunch to the grassy lawn fronting the Louisiana State Capitol Building. For dessert: a view from the 27th floor of America’s tallest state capitol, gazing down at the surrounding gardens and historic houses of colorful Spanish Town, home to Baton Rouge’s Mardi Gras festivities. Advertisement 7. Art in the Park | 3 p.m. Head over to another urban green space — the 154-acre City-Brooks Community Park, where the Baton Rouge Gallery Center for Contemporary Art is set in the park’s 1920s-era former pool house. An artists’ cooperative, the space showcases everything from experimental video art to spoken word. Stroll on to the area known as Perkins Road Overpass, where independent boutiques and dining spots are clustered around an Interstate off-ramp. Sip exceptional pour-over coffee at Magpie Cafe, then browse Louisiana history and other rare tomes at Cottonwood Books. 8. Louisiana-Style Pizza | 6 p.m. Yes, it does exist — and locals wouldn’t trade it for a lifetime’s worth of thin-crust Neapolitan slices. Fleur de Lis Pizza, a third-generation family-run business housed in a former cocktail lounge with a neon-lighted exterior, has been serving secret-recipe rectangular pies since the 1940s. The “round the world” pizza ($13 for a large) incorporates anchovies, Italian sausage, mushrooms, pepperoni, salami and onions into a gooey, extra-cheesy pie — crisp and greasy on the bottom, blistery on top. Waits on weekends can be up to an hour; stave off hunger with a pickled egg plucked from the jar on the bar ($1). 9. Hunting for Tunes | 9 p.m. Finding this city’s live music scene can take some legwork, but when you do track down an authentic gig, it’s something special indeed. Occupying a former tavern in a less-than-desirable stretch of town, Red Dragon Listening Room is a nonprofit venue where mismatched couches and church pews face a modest stage hosting folk acts. Cover is usually around $20; the entire amount goes to performers. Down a gravel road just outside town, Teddy’s Juke Joint is a blues-lovers’ twisted fairy tale covered in the sheen of Christmas lights and a glittery disco ball. It’s the kind of place where waitresses hand out gratis Styrofoam cartons of turkey wings because the piano man is celebrating his 88th birthday; and where Teddy, the cowboy-hat-and-cape-clad owner, will serenade you from the D.J. booth, then wax poetic about how he was born right here in this room. SUNDAY 10. Serious Dough | 9 a.m. Hung-over college students and hungry families alike flock to breakfast at Coffee Call, a local institution set in an unsuspecting strip mall. Pillowy beignets ($2.20 for three) are buried in mounds of powdered sugar and enjoyed best when dipped in a steaming mug of café au lait. For a more modern take on fried dough, head to a farther-out strip mall where Jeff Herman, a recent Louisiana State University grad, opened Tiger Deaux-nuts in 2012, dreaming up creative flavors like bananas foster, vanilla-jalapeño and maple-bacon. 11. Geaux-ing Out | 11 a.m. Work off some of that breakfast with a stroll through Bluebonnet Swamp Nature Center, a 103-acre stretch of land where elevated boardwalks wind through cypress and tupelo trees, and hundreds of bird species can be spotted (admission, $3). Continue to the LSU Rural Life Museum, a former plantation where more than 30 preserved historic buildings brought here from across rural Louisiana showcase the state’s wide range of vernacular architecture (admission, $9). 12. River Boat | 2 p.m. Head back downtown and venture on board the U.S.S. Kidd & Veterans Memorial, a 2,050-ton World War II destroyer now on the riverfront. Children especially enjoy crawling across the quarterdeck and through the ship’s well-preserved interior (admission, $8). If there’s still money left in your pocket, hop one vessel over and close out your weekend with blackjack aboard the riverboat portion of Belle of Baton Rouge Casino & Hotel. MISS. Plank rd. Tony’s Seafood Market & Deli 6 Teddy's Juke Joint LOUISIANA Buddy Stewart Memorial Music Foundation & Rhythm Museum Area of detail Baton Rouge Baton Rouge New Orleans LSU Rural Life Museum 1 Gulf of Mexico Tiger Deaux-nuts Bluebonnet Swamp Nature Center 11 N. Acadian Thruway W 4 miles Louisiana State Capitol Building N. Third st. Mississippi River Red Dragon Listening Room Area of detail 9 Circa 1857 U.S.S. Kidd and Veterans Memorial 5 Fleur de Lis Pizza Mosaic Garden/ My Louise/ Yvette Marie’s Cafe 110 8 12 Belle of Baton Rouge Casino & Hotel Baton Rouge Gallery Center for Contemporary Art 7 GoYaYa’s Crepes/ Main Street Market Restaurant IPO Baton Rouge City-Brooks Community Park 3 4 Cottonwood Books Red Stick Farmers Market Magpie Cafe 10 Perkins Road Overpas Hilton Baton Rouge Capitol Center Coffee Call 10 Capitol Lake Hotel Indigo Shaw Center for the Arts/ Tsunami 2 W. Lakeshore Dr. 1 mile THE DETAILS 1. Buddy Stewart Memorial Music Foundation & Rhythm Museum, 1712 North Acadian West; stewartmusicfoundation.org. 2. Shaw Center for the Arts, 100 Lafayette Street; shawcenter.org. 3. Restaurant IPO, 421 Third Street; restaurantipo.com. 4. GoYaYa’s Crepes, 501 Main Street; goyayas.com 5. Circa 1857, 1857 Government Street; circa1857.com. 6. Tony’s Seafood Market & Deli, 5215 Plank Road; tonyseafood.com. Louisiana State Capitol Building; crt.louisiana.gov/tourism/capitol/. 7. City-Brooks Community Park. Baton Rouge Gallery Center for Contemporary Art; batonrougegallery.org. Magpie Cafe, 3205 Perkins Road; magpiecafe-brla.com. Cottonwood Books, 3054 Perkins Road; cottonwoodbooksbatonrouge.com. 8. Fleur de Lis Pizza, 5655 Government Street; fleurdelispizza.com. 9. Red Dragon Listening Room, 2401 Florida Boulevard; reddragonlr.com. Teddy’s Juke Joint, 17001 Old Scenic Highway, Zachary; teddysjukejoint.com. 10. Coffee Call, 3132 College Drive; 225-925-9493. Tiger Deaux-nuts, 4608 Jones Creek Road; 225-384-0150. 11. Bluebonnet Swamp Nature Center, 10503 North Oak Hills Parkway; brec.org/swamp. LSU Rural Life Museum, 4560 Essen Lane; rurallife.lsu.edu. 12. U.S.S. Kidd & Veterans Memorial; usskidd.com. Belle of Baton Rouge Casino & Hotel, 103 France Street; belleofbatonrouge.com. A version of this article appears in print on February 16, 2014, on page TR11 of the New York edition with the headline: 36 Hours: Baton Rouge, La. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe See More » Go to Home Page »
U.S.   Reconsidering the Legacy of Lyndon B. Johnson. Fifty years after Lyndon Baines Johnson signed the Civil Rights Act, the L.B.J. Presidential Library and Museum in Austin, Tex., is to host a Civil Rights Summit in April. The president’s younger daughter, Luci Baines Johnson, shown at the library, is among those working to highlight his successful initiatives. CreditIlana Panich-Linsman for The New York Times 1 of 9 Many blacks see Chicago as a hostile city that is not a good for children. Whites are also critical of the city, but more positive overall.
Business   Rap Devotee. Advertisement By David Steinberg Feb 18, 2014 The New York Times Crossword is available through subscription only. TUESDAY’S PUZZLE — How long did you stare at this puzzle before you spotted the theme? There’s a Notepad on the Across Lite version of the puzzle that says, “The answers to the 13 starred clues follow an unusual two-way progression from 1- to 73-Across. Can you figure out what it is?” Well, sure. But you’re going to have to look very carefully. When the theme emerges for you, like one of those computer-generated 3-D artworks where you have to relax your eyes in order to see the picture, you may not yet fully realize how hard this must have been to construct. Sure, it’s an 80-worder (the usual maximum for a 15 x 15 puzzle is 78), but in order to build this puzzle, David Steinberg had to find words that had certain beginnings and certain endings, then fit them all in the grid and … well, I’m just going to say that this looked like way more work than I would want to put into making a puzzle. You have to respect someone who bends his own rules when it comes to fill just to pull off an idea like this. Still not getting it? O.K., here it is: Each of the answers to the starred (italicized if you’re solving the print version) clues begins with the letters of the first half of the alphabet from A to M, and then, if that wasn’t enough, the last letter of those same words consists of the second half of the alphabet in reverse from Z to M. It’s like watching the figure-skating competitions in the winter Olympics and being amazed when the skater lands a triple lutz-triple toe combination. I still can’t believe Mr. Steinberg was able to land this, and I’ll bet the East German judge would be impressed as well. Mr. Steinberg discusses the mechanics of building this puzzle below, so I’ll just say that the Clues of the Day for me are 31 Down’s “What can get you down?” for EIDER and 1 Down’s “Trip provider?” for ACID. I first came up with the idea for this puzzle when I was 14. I had no idea how I was going to go about squeezing 13 symmetrical theme entries in a particular order into a 15 x 15 grid — I wasn’t even sure I’d be able to come up with a set of theme entries that would work at all! Anyway, the big breakthrough happened when I discovered JOHN Q for the J to Q arrangement. Unfortunately, I then had to find an entry that fit the D???W letter pattern. The only two entries I could find were DO NOW (either a contrived phrase or an awkward partial) and DEPEW (as in Chauncey Depew, a turn-of-the-century politician). I decided that DO NOW was the lesser of two evils and proceeded to the grid. I soon discovered that CHATTERBOX and KARATE CHOP were the same length, which allowed me to open up the grid a bit more, though I was still dissatisfied with the puzzle, since all the other theme entries were very short and the grid had 82 words. Fast forward a few months to April, 2012, after my 15th birthday. I was playing around with this idea some more and, after a substantial amount of grid wrangling, produced an 80-worder that replaced GET AT with GARMENT DISTRICT (a 15-letter entry). The fill had a few compromises and irksome “duplicates” in the down entries like GOES SOFT, though I was still very happy with how it turned out. After I submitted the puzzle, I noticed that I had absentmindedly clued GARMENT DISTRICT as “Big Apple district with many labels”; “Part of Manhattan’s Midtown West” works much better. I also worked on a Z TO A puzzle to complement this one for a little while, though I couldn’t come up with a satisfactory Q*J entry (the best I could think of was QZXJ [“Highest scoring Scrabble tiles”], which I felt would permanently mangle Amy Reynaldo’s Scowl-o-Meter!). In all, this puzzle was a lot of fun to construct, and I hope it makes for a fun solve as well! I spent a lot of time reading SHEL Silverstein’s poetry to my kids when they were younger, but I’ve always loved his career as a musician and lyricist. Let’s listen to some “Modern Talk:” Your thoughts? Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… David Poole has something up his sleeve.Read more… Jacob Stulberg is all wet. Don’t tell him I said that.Read more… The return of John Westwig.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   Image of the Day: February 17. Advertisement   India’s national elections began April 7 and will continue on nine separate dates until May 12, with results expected to be announced on May 16. The vote is the world’s largest, with 814 million eligible voters set to choose 543 members of the lower house of Parliament. The other two seats will be appointed by the president. This election is widely considered to be India’s most consequential since 1977. India Ink will be moving to the World page of The New York Times. Read more… A memorial ceremony at the Imphal War Cemetery in Manipur to honor the soldiers who died during World War II.Read more… The newly elected prime minister reaches out to the public in a blog post about his first 30 days in office.Read more… Newborns whose mothers are unable to breastfeed are given stored breast milk to protect them from potentially life-threatening infection.Read more… In the final stage of a long decline, Hindustan Motors announced in May that it would suspend production of the Ambassador, a car that was once synonymous with style and status.Read more… This report on India from the journalists of The New York Times and a pool of talented writers in India and beyond provides unbiased, authoritative reporting on the country and its place in the world. India Ink also strives to be a virtual meeting point for discussion of this complex, fast-changing democracy – its politics, economy, culture and everyday life. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Health   Itchy Cheetah. A cheetah scratching an itch.          
Science   A Fresh Case for Breast Self-Exams Sign Up for the Running Email. Advertisement Advice on money and health. Scientists produced dismal news last week about mammograms. After tracking 90,000 women for 25 years, researchers in Canada found that those who received regular mammograms did not experience fewer deaths from breast cancer or from all causes, compared with those who did not. But buried in the news was a nugget of hope: The women who did not receive regular mammograms were instead monitored with physical breast exams that proved effective. All of the participants were taught to examine their own breasts once a month, and specially trained nurses examined women who were in their 50s. This low-tech approach, the researchers found, appeared to be as good as or better than regular mammograms at locating the serious cancers that needed treatment. The study authors are hesitant to draw any firm conclusions, because they did not set out to study manual breast exams per se. But as the data came in, “I began to feel that what the trial was showing was that clinical breast exam was effective and could substitute for mammography, if it was performed well and was accompanied by the teaching of breast self-exam,” said Dr. Anthony B. Miller of the University of Toronto, the study’s lead author. That is a very different message from what women have been hearing. “Before this report came out, I would have said the best role for clinical breast exams is in places where there isn’t good access to mammography, because it’s a reliable way to catch some cancers early, but it’s not as sensitive as mammography,” said Dr. Mary Barton, a vice president at the National Committee for Quality Assurance, a private health care nonprofit, who has studied the performance of clinical breast exams. Now, she said, “the question is: Is mammography too sensitive?” In the Canadian study of women ages 40 to 59, mammography identified more cancers, but overdiagnosis led to unnecessary treatment like chemotherapy. Medical organizations like the American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists do recommend regular clinical breast exams, performed by doctors or trained nurses, for women beginning at age 20. But self-exams have fallen out of favor. The American Cancer Society offers instructions and suggests women ask their doctors about them, but the United States Preventive Services Task Force in 2009 gave self-exams a “D” grade, saying it was a waste of a time to teach women to do them. Data in support of self-exams have been “really murky,” said Dr. Elizabeth Steiner, director of the breast health education program at Oregon Health and Science University’s Knight Cancer Institute. Still, she believes there are good reasons to encourage women to do self-exams. “Who’s going to know your breasts better?” she said. “Your doctor, who does an exam once a year, or you, who does it every month?” There is not a lot of research to support clinical breast exams, either, but Dr. Steiner said, “I personally do think more health care providers need to be trained to do high-quality clinical breast exams.” Given the debate over mammography, you would think that scientists would be taking a harder look at alternatives. But a randomized clinical trial comparing clinical breast exams with no care is unlikely, said Dr. Cornelia J. Baines, an author of the Canadian mammography study. “Everyone’s looking for a technological fix, not what fingers can do,” she said. If you are looking for a clinical breast exam, find a provider who has received training in the so-called vertical-strip, three-pressure method, which calls for moving the fingers up and down along the chest area, rather than in circular motions around the breast, and palpating lightly, then a little more firmly and then deeply in each spot. Done properly, it is time-consuming, taking at least three minutes for each breast. One study found that the exams were more reliable when they were not performed during a patient visit that included other demanding tasks, like Pap smears. The clinician should examine the entire chest area, not just the breast — all the way up to the neck or collarbone, into the armpit, over the center of the chest, and under the breast into the rib cage. The exam should also include a visual inspection of the breasts while the patient is asked to stand in different poses. This can make some patients, and physicians, uncomfortable. Detailed instructions for a self-exam are available on many breast cancer websites. You may want to ask a health provider for guidance as well. The optimal time for a self-exam is just after your period. Start by standing in front of a mirror and examining your breasts for any unusual dimpling or asymmetry, changes or discharges from the nipple, redness or rashes. To examine your breast, lie on your back and raise an arm above your head. Use your other hand to examine the breast beneath the raised arm; rely on the pads of your fingers, not the tips. Use three levels of pressure: light, then medium and then firm to feel near the ribs. Physical breast exams can miss tumors, or lead to overdiagnosis and treatment of lumps that turn out to be harmless. Still, Dr. Steiner said, “High-quality clinical breast exams are less likely to give you a false positive and might, in skilled hands, be less likely to give you a false negative.” A version of this article appears in print on 02/18/2014, on page D4 of the NewYork edition with the headline: A Fresh Case for Breast Self-Exams. Your health questions answered by Times journalists and experts. Your Questions | All » Get Well's Running email for practical tips, expert advice, exclusive content and a bit of motivation delivered to your inbox every week to help you on your running journey. Coming soon. How much do you know about the amazing things that go on in your gut? Take our quiz to find out about the creepy, crawly critters living in your home. What surface is the most friendly to the flu virus? Where’s the best place to stand when you’re talking to a sick person? How does sleep affect health, relationships and well-being? The “Reading the Mind in the Eyes Test” measures ability to understand others’ emotional states. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   NBC Pushes Too Far in Bringing Bode Miller to Tears. Advertisement Advertisement TV Sports By RICHARD SANDOMIR FEB. 17, 2014 Bode Miller had just tied for a bronze medal in the men’s super-G at the Olympics in Sochi, Russia, on Sunday and it was time to be interviewed. NBC had already established Miller’s quest as an emotional story line, putting a microphone on his wife, Morgan, to hear her reactions to his races, and having the couple sit for an interview with Tom Brokaw. He was being humanized — as the changed man, the family man, the mature 36-year-old whose brother had died last year. This is the type of storytelling that lubricates NBC’s prime-time Olympic engine. This time, the engine backfired. It was not out of bounds for NBC’s Christin Cooper to ask a medal winner questions about his brother’s death. (Miller’s brother, Chelone, was a snowboarder who died last year at 29.) It was a relevant area to pursue, part of his Olympic biography. And Miller brought it up in response to her first question, saying that he had “a lot of emotion riding” on the race. Cooper picked up on that quickly and asked, “Bode, you’re showing so much emotion down here, what’s going through your mind?” That probably should have been the last question about his brother. This was, after all, an interview with a great skier who had just won a bronze medal, the sixth Olympic medal of his career. He had done no wrong to be milked for more emotion than he wanted to reveal. Cooper needed to strike a far better balance in her questions so that the takeaway for viewers would not be that she was badgering him. Advertisement Maybe the absence of detail in his answer — he said only that it had been “a long struggle coming in here. And, uh, just a tough year” — compelled her to go forward. “I know you wanted to be here with Chelly experiencing these games; how much does it mean to you to come up with a great performance for him? And was it for him?” she said. Now she was sounding intrusive, and maybe doubting his fraternal inspiration. It was one question too many, at least the way it was phrased. But it pushed Miller into a thoughtful answer — that he did not know if he had won a medal for his brother or to “make myself proud.” Advertisement He was holding up, but tears had started to trickle down Miller’s face. He was being a stand-up guy, even if he was being pulled through a wringer. Now was truly the time to stop. If you’ve made a medal winner cry, it is time to simply say “thank you” and move on. It was on tape, so NBC could have cut it off and gone to Matt Lauer in the studio. Instead, Cooper forged on, wondering whom he seemed to be talking to when he looked up in the sky before he started his run down the mountain. It was not a bad question, but by this point, it was overkill. “What’s going on there?” she said. Miller’s helmeted head was bowed and he was unable to answer. The clock kept ticking, and I expected NBC to turn its camera elsewhere or for Cooper to say, “Thanks, Bode, you had a great race.” That did not happen. And there was no interview with the gold medalist, Kjetil Jansrud, to plug in and change the tempo. Instead, Cooper, a former Olympian who won a silver medal in the giant slalom at the 1984 Games, tried to comfort Miller, putting a hand on his shoulder. In all, NBC lingered over this scene for 75 seconds — as Miller continued to weep, as he walked away, as he was comforted and as his wife embraced him. He might have cried on his own, for his brother, for joy, for the way his life had changed. But had the tears not been provoked by Cooper’s questions, we probably would not have seen that emotion. Dan Hicks, who called the super-G race for NBC, talked over some of this tearful imagery — unnecessarily — mentioning how Miller had seemed like a different skier than in the past and how his emotions “continued to flow out.” Yep, we saw that. Advertisement Emotion is a real and honest element of athletic triumph and defeat. And you don’t want a network to tell its journalists to stick to soft questions when interviewing the winners. But in this instance, Cooper and NBC lacked the sensitivity to know when enough was enough. It did not end there. Later Sunday, Miller visited Matt Lauer in the studio on Sunday night. “You always strike me as someone who likes to keep your emotions pretty close to your vest, and yet this has been a pretty challenging year for you,” Lauer said to Miller, again bringing up his brother’s death and his public custody battle. Miller, who did not bring up the interview, said he talked to his brother at the start, saying “give me a couple hundreths today, give me that little extra push.”  He continued: “Then for it to come down and be as close as it can possibly get in ski racing and end up with a medal, it just seemed kind of connected.  At that point, I was just pretty overwhelmed with the feeling of getting a little bit of help from my brother.” Battered by online criticism of Christin Cooper’s interview of Miller after it was broadcast Sunday night, NBC released a statement Monday. “Our intent was to convey the emotion that Bode Miller was feeling after winning his bronze medal,” a spokesman for the network said. “We understand how some viewers thought the line of questioning went too far, but it was our judgment that his answers were a necessary part of the story. We’re gratified that Bode has been publicly supportive of Christin Cooper and the overall interview.” Miller also came to Cooper’s defense in a pair of posts on Twitter on Monday and expanded on those comments in an interview on NBC’s “Today” with Lauer. “I’ve known Christin a long time, and she is a sweetheart of a person,” Miller said. “I know she didn’t mean to push. I don’t think she really anticipated what my reaction was going to be, and I think by the time she sort of realized it, I think it was too late and I don’t really, I don’t blame her at all.” He continued: “I feel terrible that she is taking the heat for that because it really is just a heat of the moment kind of circumstance, and I don’t think there was any harm intended. So, it was just a lot of emotion for me, it’s been a lot over the last year and that you sometimes don’t realize how much you contain that stuff until the dam breaks and then it’s just a real outpouring.” See More » Go to Home Page »
Travel   Weekends Made for Maple. Advertisement Adirondack maple syrup producers will open their maple farms and sugar bushes across the six-million-acre park for one of New York State’s tastiest traditions – Maple Weekends, this year on March 22 and 23 and March 29 and 30. “Tree-to-table” offerings involve several regions across the Adirondacks, and run from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. each weekend. Adults and children can participate in activities including hands-on syrup-making demonstrations, sugar bush tours, maple confection sampling and pancake and waffle breakfasts. Swiss’er Sweet Maple in Castorland will offer guided tours of the farm’s extensive tap system, as well as insight into the maple syrup production process. Nearby, Moser’s Maple in Croghan marks its first year participating in Maple Weekends with candy making, horse-drawn hayrides and a woodland walk along the farm’s sugaring operation. Moon Valley Maple, at Titus Mountain Family Ski Center in Malone, will be serving a waffle breakfast with homemade syrup throughout March. In Tupper Lake, the Wild Center, a natural history center, will celebrate “All Maple Day” on March 22 with maple stories, crafts and tastings. At Toad Hill Maple Farm in the Lake George Region, families can enjoy maple candy samples, hay wagon rides around the farm and tours of the sugar shack and more. For a more scientific view of the process, there will be syrup experts at Cornell University’s Uihlein Sugar Maple Research and Extension Field Station near Lake Placid. Guests can tour through the maple syrup process, beginning in the sugar bush and ending in the sugar house, to learn about new tree-tapping techniques that are revolutionizing maple syrup production in the area and to learn about ongoing research into walnut and birch syrup production. For a complete list of Maple Weekend participants, visit www.MapleWeekend.com. Find additional maple events, information and lodging packages and travel ideas at VisitAdirondacks.com. In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Books   The Read Around: Kelly Corrigan. Kelly Corrigan’s new memoir, “Glitter and Glue,” is about the long process of truly accepting her mother.          
Business   Motivational Words. Advertisement By Michael Dewey Feb 19, 2014 The New York Times Crossword is available through subscription only. WEDNESDAY’S PUZZLE — Atten-shun! Eyes right here, soldiers, we’ve got us a puzzle to discuss. Michael Dewey made his New York Times debut two years ago and he’s back today with a military theme that not only orders us around, but also answers his own orders with a “SIR, YES SIR!” on the diagonal (at 11 Down, 39 Across and 58 Down). Some people don’t like seeing repeated words in their grid, but here it’s clued so that it’s part of the theme in a way. The rest of the theme is a series of military commands, clued punnily. Of these, I thought that PRESENT ARMS had the best visual, phlebotomally speaking, unless you get queasy, in which case FORWARD MARCH works well, too. I wasn’t comfortable with the cluing for READY AIM FIRE and it adds a theme element that contains three words instead of two, but I can’t think of another way to clue that phrase that doesn’t have to do with actually firing a weapon. DIPHTHONG is not only a fun word to say, but it makes its debut in the New York Times crosswords today, along with three of the four theme entries, IMPIETY and PRESORTED. There’s some crosswordese in here and I would have liked to have had a bit more wordplay in the cluing at midweek, but all in all, a fun and attention-holding experience. At ease, everyone, while we hear from Mr. Dewey. Smoke ’em if you got ’em: This is my second New York Times puzzle publication. As an educator, husband and father, I have to credit my loved ones and students as the inspiration for my puzzle ideas. My wife lets me bounce my crazy ideas off her, my Dad filled my childhood with puns, and my Mom taught me to laugh at myself and to use humor when things grow uneasy. For example, awaiting the needle before donating at our school blood drive, I tried to cut the tension by saying, “PRESENT ARMS.” Nearby students thought it was funny, but my phlebotomist was all business. Later on, I was in dad mode when I told my boys to “FORWARD MARCH” upstairs to bed. My oldest gave me a mock salute and said, “SIR, YES SIR!” Et voila! The theme was born. From there, the trick was to come up with the right combination of military commands with matching letter counts. COMPANY HALT worked nicely, but ABOUT FACE didn’t make the final grid. I thought the fourth entry, READY AIM FIRE, added a little extra challenge because it contained three words instead of two. Plus that pattern gets echoed in the three-word response, albeit as separate entries. Upon cluing, I already had “what blood donors do first” for PRESENT ARMS, and the others followed fairly easily. Will’s editing bailed me out on 20 Across; originally, I had “Blunt month?” as the clue for FORWARD MARCH. The grid went through a number of iterations (I played with moving the two “SIR” entries around the grid) before Will gave his final stamp of approval. Kudos to him for his patience! I was also happy to place DIPHTHONG, PRESORTED and IMPIETY (three new New York Times puzzle words, if I’m not mistaken) into the grid. Lastly, I offer a genuine salute to all of our past and present military personnel. Thank you for the sacrifices you make to keep us safe! Peace to all. Peace to you as well, Mr. Dewey. Hope to see you again soon. The very tall and dapper Tom Gaffney will be sitting in for me once again while I am on vacation. When I return, I will be bringing news from the American Crossword Puzzle Tournament, being held March 7-9 in Brooklyn. If you are planning on being there, please take some time to say hi to me, and if you can’t make it, remember that you can play along at home for the nominal fee of $20. In the meanwhile, have fun solving and I’ll see you when I get back. Your thoughts? Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… David Poole has something up his sleeve.Read more… Jacob Stulberg is all wet. Don’t tell him I said that.Read more… The return of John Westwig.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   Image of the Day: February 18. Advertisement India’s national elections began April 7 and will continue on nine separate dates until May 12, with results expected to be announced on May 16. The vote is the world’s largest, with 814 million eligible voters set to choose 543 members of the lower house of Parliament. The other two seats will be appointed by the president. This election is widely considered to be India’s most consequential since 1977. India Ink will be moving to the World page of The New York Times. Read more… A memorial ceremony at the Imphal War Cemetery in Manipur to honor the soldiers who died during World War II.Read more… The newly elected prime minister reaches out to the public in a blog post about his first 30 days in office.Read more… Newborns whose mothers are unable to breastfeed are given stored breast milk to protect them from potentially life-threatening infection.Read more… In the final stage of a long decline, Hindustan Motors announced in May that it would suspend production of the Ambassador, a car that was once synonymous with style and status.Read more… This report on India from the journalists of The New York Times and a pool of talented writers in India and beyond provides unbiased, authoritative reporting on the country and its place in the world. India Ink also strives to be a virtual meeting point for discussion of this complex, fast-changing democracy – its politics, economy, culture and everyday life. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Movies   Clip: 'Captain Phillips'. A scene from the film.          
Science   The Podcast Hits the Road. Advertisement Advertisement By JEFFERY DelVISCIOFEB. 17, 2014 This week the Science Times podcast hit the road. I traveled to Chicago for the annual American Association for the Advancement of Science conference. It’s a lot like amotorized scientific buffet. Lots of subjects, with tons of cool science all crammed into a couple of Windy City days. I couldn’t hope to tell you about everything, so I had to be choosy. Have you ever played with the Google Earth program? If so, you have probably gone from a vantage point above the virtual earth all the way down to street level in one continuous zoom. You can think of this week’s program as just that — a continuous zoom… with three stops along the way. First stop: above Earth, where we will talk to the first American woman to walk in space. She still spends a lot of time peering at our world from great heights, but now she does that from executive office of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration in Washington Next we zoom from space to city level and talk to a crowd of experts on the future of the city. Then we will finish our trip by zooming straight into the human body. Advertisement _________________________________ WATCHING OUR EYES IN THE SKIES Kathryn Sullivan is just about as comfortable as any person can be watching Earth from above. She flew on three NASA missions, spending more than 530 hours and traveling 8.6 million miles in orbit. Today, she still spends a lot of time poring over Earth from above. But now, she’s on the ground, inside the executive office of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration where she is currently the acting head of the agency. President Obama sent her nomination to the Senate last August. She appeared for a confirmation hearing before the Senate a month later. Her confirmation is still pending. We spoke about the role of the agency in weather forecasting and climate prediction, as well as her childhood affinity for maps and the state of grade school geography today. (Download the interview here.) ____________________________________________ CITIES OF THE PRESENT, CITIES OF THE FUTURE Joan Clos, the head of the United Nations Human Settlements Program, put the current population of worldwide urban dwellers at 3.5 billion. He also estimated that that number could double in 30 to 40 years. The pressures of a growing population, aging infrastructure and the threat of climate change will strain cities worldwide in the coming years. What have we learned so far about how cities function — and how they don’t? What is the role of that most symbolic of city features, the skyscraper? And is it possible to “break” a city? Five experts offered their perspectives on the use of data to solve urban problems, the ways in which the skyscraper is venerated and misused, and their best guesses on what the cities of the future might look like. They are: William F. Baker, a structural engineering partner at Skidmore, Owings and Merrill; Wiel Arets, architect and dean, Illinois Institute of Technology College of Architecture; Virginia Parks, associate professor, School of Social Service Administration, University of Chicago; Saskia Sassen, a professor of sociology at Columbia University; and Antony Wood, the executive director of the Council on Tall Buildings and Urban Habitat. (Download the interview here.) __________________________ VIRTUALIZING OUR BODIES We’ve all heard of virtual reality. But what about virtual body organs? New advances in computing power are allowing scientists to create digital versions of working brains and livers that try to model everything from drug damage to the way we act. Some of these simulations can, potentially, give us the freedom to transition away from using laboratory animals to test our drugs. Vijay Chandru’s virtual liver is meant to do just that. His company, Strand Biosciences, created the virtual liver by integrating the results of more than 3,000 scientific papers into how the model works. It is meant to simulate a normal liver — and it is also meant to, harmlessly, take the toxic insults that Dr. Chandru’s team feeds it in the form of virtual toxins and new drugs. Other models can act like simplified versions of humans, taking in information and acting on it. Terrence Stewart, a postdoctoral researcher at the University of Waterloo in Canada worked on a brain model called Spaun. That’s the brain and tongue saving acronym for Semantic Pointer Architecture Unified Network. Spaun takes its two and a half million virtual neurons and puts them to certain tasks. It has a virtual eye to see the task it is given and a virtual arm to draw its response on a virtual pad. Other researchers think that in order to truly understand health, wellness and disease, an individual human must create he or her own data cloud, which can be recorded, decoded and summarized so that the patient can act on that information. For Leroy Hood, the president of the Institute for Systems Biology in Seattle, it’s the best way to catch disease in the body before it actually takes hold . He has just started a nine-month trial to create virtual patient data clouds for 100 volunteers. He says the study is just a prelude: He hopes one day to enroll 100,000 patients for a decades-long trial. (Download the interview here.) You can subscribe to the Science Times podcast or listen to more episodes here. Go to Home Page »
Sports   Sochi Video Notebook: Megan McJames. The American skier talks about the struggles of being an independent athlete.                 
Technology   PCell Demo. Steve Perlman, founder and chief executive, explains how his company's pCell technology works.          
Travel   At a California Resort, a Tequila Tutorial. Advertisement A resort in Southern California is capitalizing on the recent proliferation of mezcal and other agave-derived liquor distilleries to draw new devotees to a members-only club. The Rancho Valencia Resort and Spa near San Diego recently started its All Agave Project, a series of seminars and tastings for the cocktail crowd. The project, created by Chris Simmons, the hotel’s certified catador, or taster, offers guests and visitors several options to get to know more about Mexican liquors — in particular, exotic tequilas and their more potent country relatives, mezcal, bacanora and sotol, many of which were banned from sale until the 1990s. The All Agave Tasting Tour, hosted in the resort’s Pony Room lounge, teaches guests about the history of the craft, a process that involves cultivating and roasting agave and then fermenting the juices. Monthly “Sip Sesh” seminars with master distillers and owners gives a more in-depth picture of the various processes used by different distilleries, accompanied by tastings. And an annual membership to the hotel’s All Agave Club includes both tasting tours and discounted monthly seminars , as well as special members-only tastings, events and, thoughtfully, a complimentary flask. The next series of Sip Sesh seminars will be lead by Jim Riley, the chief executive of Azuñia Tequila (Feb. 20); Gary Eisenberger, a founder of Karma Tequila (March 20); and Barry Augus, a founder and chief executive of Tres Agaves Tequila (April 17). In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Business   Yahoo Introduces Service for Buying Mobile Ads. Advertisement   The new service, Yahoo Gemini, is an online marketplace for buying mobile search and so-called native advertisements, ads that look similar to editorial content, the company said in a blog post. The service is available through a broader self-service tool called Yahoo Ad Manager that is used to buy online advertisements. Yahoo’s chief executive, Marissa Mayer, has made mobile initiatives part of her turnaround plan for the company, which has fallen behind other companies, notably Google and Facebook, that earn their fortunes from online advertising. Yahoo spent $1.1 billion last year to acquire Tumblr, a social networking company with a strong presence in mobile. With the new service, Yahoo is also increasing its efforts to become a more significant player in both mobile and web-based native advertising, a newer form of online marketing generating interest — and controversy. When native ads appear in online publications, they are typically made to look like stories and other editorial content While publishers, including The New York Times, label native ads that appear on their sites, they have still raised concerns among some media critics about a blurring of lines between advertising and editorial. In the blog post announcing Yahoo Gemini, Jay Rossiter, senior vice president of Yahoo’s cloud platform group and Adam Cahan, senior vice president of mobile and emerging products, wrote that the service will give advertisers a way to “get the performance and ease of search, combined with the scale and creativity of native advertising.” A version of this article appears in print on 02/20/2014, on page B2 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Yahoo Introduces Service for Buying Mobile Ads. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   Latest Attacks on Doctors Prompt New Call for Deterrent Measures. Advertisement On Monday, Sun Dongtao, an ear, nose and throat doctor at Qiqihar Beigang Hospital, in the northern province of Heilongjiang, was beaten to death with an iron bar by a patient unhappy with his treatment, the state news agency Xinhua reported. On Tuesday, Li Aixin, a doctor at the Yi County People’s Hospital in Hebei Province was stabbed in the throat by a patient dissatisfied with the outcome of an operation. Dr. Li’s windpipe was cut open and his thyroid gland severed, but he survived, according to the Jinghua Times. The two attacks this week are part of a long line of violence against doctors in China that has spooked the profession. In October, hundreds of medical personnel demonstrated outside the No. 1 People’s Hospital in Wenling in Zhejiang Province, where a man had stabbed three doctors, killing one. They held signs reading: “Restore My Dignity” and “Defend Justice.”  The reasons for the violence vary but are believed to be tied to public perceptions of excessive health care costs, corruption among doctors and medical institutions, and poor bedside manners by physicians. Patients who pay high fees or bribes for operations expect to be healed, and when they are not, may react violently. Medical industry representatives have called for harsher punishments for attackers, an appeal repeated this week by Deng Liqiang, the head of the legal department of the Chinese Medical Doctors Association. “In recent years the punishments for many violent attacks on doctors have been insufficient and the deterrent too low,” The China Youth Daily quoted him as saying. “That won’t contain violent attacks or deter imitators,” it quoted Mr. Deng as saying. Meanwhile, the head of Yi County People’s Hospital, Zhao Shuangan, told the newspaper that the police were providing 24-hour patrols of the facility since the attack on Dr. Li. Mr. Zhao said the attack had caused “panic” among the hospital staff, but everything was now operating “normally.” Dr. Li was still unable to speak, but was expected to recover, he said. The Ministry of Public Security and the National Health and Family Planning Commission said in October that in 2012, there were 11 violent attacks on medical staff at hospitals in eight provinces and municipalities, leaving seven people dead and 28 wounded, including doctors, patients and a security guard. Other figures suggest broader violence: Since 2002, attacks have risen by an average of nearly 23 percent a year, the China Hospital Management Society said in a paper published in December in Chinese Community Doctors, a medical journal. Sinosphere, the China blog of The New York Times, delivers intimate, authoritative coverage of the planet's most populous nation and its relationship with the rest of the world. Drawing on timely, engaging dispatches from The Times’ distinguished team of China correspondents, this blog brings readers into the debates and discussions taking place inside a fast-changing country and details the cultural, economic and political developments shaping the lives of 1.3 billion people. Some called on the government to send troops to the Middle East in retaliation to an Islamic State killing, while others cautioned that such a move could invite terrorism at home.Read more… The dissidents had won official recognition as refugees and had been previously detained in China for their activism, Chris Buckley reports.Read more… Human rights advocates listened with a mixture of incredulity and derision to the delegation’s responses on interrogation, Nick Cumming-Bruce reports. Read more… In the Philippines for an Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit, President Obama urged China to halt military activities on the disputed islands, Michael D. Shear reports. Read more… The dead, including women and children, were said to have been involved in a knife attack in September that left 50 people dead at a mine near the Kyrgyzstan border, Javier C. Hernández reports. Read more… Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Science   Study Finds Drops Are Best Treatment for Ear Tube-Related Dripping Sign Up for the Running Email. Advertisement For children with ear tubes, topical antibiotic drops treat the leaky discharge caused by an ear infection much more effectively than oral antibiotics or observation, according to a study published in The New England Journal of Medicine on Wednesday. Each year, roughly 670,000 children in the United States have tiny plastic tubes placed in the eardrum in one of the most common surgeries of childhood. If the ear gets infected afterward, clear or bloody discharge can drip out, and a foul smell may be noticeable. This condition of drippy ears, which may or may not be painful, is known as tympanostomy tube otorrhea. In a 2013 study, 67 percent of children who had ear tubes put in experienced one or more episodes of otorrhea in the year after the procedure. Smaller trials with different designs have found that ear drops are more effective than systemic antibiotics for this common problem. But the new study is the first to include a no-treatment, wait-and-see group, and provides the best evidence to date for the superiority of ear drops for children with tubes. “This is a big study, very high quality and very rigorous. It’s more of a definitive study,” said Dr. Richard M. Rosenfeld, chairman of otolaryngology at SUNY Downstate Medical Center in Brooklyn, who was not involved in the research. Putting drops into the ear canal, he said, is akin to “dropping a Scud missile on the bacteria.” There are two benefits, he said. “It resolves the otorrhea more effectively and faster than oral medicine,” he said. “More importantly, you avoid the problem of resistant germs, which is a major, major problem.” In the new study, 230 children ages 1 to 10 with acute tube discharge were randomly assigned to three groups: some got ear drops, some got oral antibiotics, and some were simply observed. At two weeks, 5 percent of the children treated with drops still had discharge from an infection, compared with 44 percent of those treated with oral antibiotics and 55 percent of those who were only observed. The study suggests that drippy ears in children with tubes might take two weeks or longer to resolve without treatment — a long time if the child has trouble sleeping or cannot participate in activities. “No previous study assessed the actual need to treat these children,” said Dr. Thijs M.A. van Dongen, the lead author of the study and an epidemiologist at University Medical Center Utrecht in the Netherlands. In a six-month follow-up, the study found that children who were not treated for the first two weeks had a median total of 18 days of discharge, compared with five days for those who got ear drops, and 13.5 days for those given oral antibiotics. “It’s better to start treatment quickly after onset of symptoms,” Dr. van Dongen said. “They improve more quickly, and they have less recurrence in following months.” But Dr. Rosenfeld said it was not clear that all children with tube otorrhea should promptly start ear drops. Watching and waiting is an option, he said, if the drainage is not profuse and causes no discomfort, and the child still sleeps and acts normally. Drops can be expensive, and if used excessively they can cause hard-to-treat yeast overgrowth. Last July, practice guidelines issued by the American Academy of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery strongly recommended that clinicians prescribe only topical antibiotic ear drops for children with uncomplicated cases of tube discharge. But some pediatricians and family physicians still routinely prescribe systemic antibiotics for these cases. Among otolaryngologists, the new guidelines are “fairly well accepted,” said Dr. Joseph E. Kerschner, a professor of otolaryngology and the dean of the medical school at Medical College of Wisconsin in Milwaukee. “Still, there’s evidence that not all physicians have gotten the message.” A 2013 survey found that 54 percent of emergency-medicine physicians used oral antibiotics to treat an ear infection in a child with ear tubes, compared with just 9 percent of ear, nose and throat doctors, almost all of whom used topical antibiotics. Most children do not see ear, nose and throat specialists first, said Dr. Seth R. Schwartz, an otolaryngologist and the director of the Listen for Life Center at Virginia Mason Medical Center in Seattle, so “it’s important that all physicians who treat children with this condition are aware.” The bottom line is that “oral antibiotics don’t work well” in these cases, he said, and they may cause stomach upset or diarrhea. In an uncomplicated case of tube discharge, Dr. Kerschner advised parents to say to pediatricians, “’Hey, my kid has a draining ear, how about using topical antibiotics instead of oral antibiotics?’ The child will get better faster and more reliably.” In children without ear tubes who get an ear infection, drops are not effective as they cannot get behind the ear drum. For those children, oral antibiotics are a common treatment. Lately, Dr. Schwartz said, “there’s a higher recognition that you can treat with observation initially with close follow-up.” A version of this article appears in print on 02/20/2014, on page A11 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Study Finds Drops Are Best Treatment for Ear Tube-Related Discharge in Children. Your health questions answered by Times journalists and experts. Your Questions | All » Get Well's Running email for practical tips, expert advice, exclusive content and a bit of motivation delivered to your inbox every week to help you on your running journey. Coming soon. How much do you know about the amazing things that go on in your gut? Take our quiz to find out about the creepy, crawly critters living in your home. What surface is the most friendly to the flu virus? Where’s the best place to stand when you’re talking to a sick person? How does sleep affect health, relationships and well-being? The “Reading the Mind in the Eyes Test” measures ability to understand others’ emotional states. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   What to Watch: Wednesday, Feb. 19. Advertisement Advertisement FEB. 18, 2014 ALPINE SKIING Ted Ligety of the United States, still without a medal in these Games, competes in his best event, the giant slalom. NBC, 8 p.m. BOBSLED Lauryn Williams of the United States, a sprint medalist in the Summer Olympics, is attempting to become the first woman to win gold medals in different sports in the Winter and the Summer Games. Williams and Elana Meyers are in first place after two runs in two-man bobsled. NBC, 8 p.m. FIGURE SKATING The final figure-skating event gets under way, with Kim Yu-na of South Korea beginning her Olympics title defense in the women’s short program. NBCSN, 10 a.m. A version of this article appears in print on February 19, 2014, on page B16 of the New York edition with the headline: What to Watch: Wednesday. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Technology   'She Lit a Fire'. A new music video by Lord Huron.          
Travel   A ‘Creativity Conference’ at the Cloister. Advertisement The Cloister at Sea Island in Georgia has taken a cue from the popular TED series and will produce its own speakers event, the Creativity Conference, which organizers hope will become an annual attraction. Hosts of the conference, scheduled for March 28 and 29, will be Mark Moffett, the photographer, adventurer and entomologist, and his wife and frequent expedition partner, Melissa Wells. Speakers include Ben Huh, who runs a network of humor websites; the Hunter College professor Diana Reiss, an expert in the study of self-awareness and intelligence in dolphins and elephants; and the Pulitzer-prize-winning photographer David Hume Kennerly, who served as President Gerald R. Ford’s White House photographer. The weekend activities, open only to guests, will include talks, question-and-answer sessions and a three-course dinner with the speakers. The conference is included in the nightly rate (starting at $505), with an additional $85 cost for the dinner. In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
U.S.   Excerpts as Obama Signs the Farm Bill. President Obama on Friday signed the $956 billion farm bill into law. It replaces direct crop payments to farmers with an insurance program, and trims the food stamp program.          
Business   Of Clogs and Cordwainers. Advertisement By Patrick Berry Feb 21, 2014 The New York Times Crossword is available through subscription only. FRIDAY’S PUZZLE — There’s no unifying theme in this Friday puzzle from Patrick Berry, but he has decided to GO BIG OR GO HOME by stacking the puzzle with plenty of brilliantly worded clues that tease the solver with double meanings and subtle misdirection. For starters, we’re given the entry “much-hailed group” for CABS, and “one with a thing for laughter” for PROP COMIC, where you need to read between the lines to get the real meaning of his carefully chosen words. Later on, we come across “needs” for DEARTHS and “leaves from the Orient” for GREEN TEA. I probably had the hardest time with that last one, simply because I assumed that “leaves” meant “departs,” so all my guesses had to do with traveling west. It took quite a few crossers and more than a little head scratching before I realized Patrick meant tea. Maybe I need some caffeine. It’s also noteworthy how many rarely seen words Patrick managed to work into the puzzle. For example, there’s a clue about a cordwainer, more commonly known as a SHOEMAKER. Some of the other words you don’t see everyday include OAST and REDCAP. Since we have a mention of a Songwriter Hall of Fame member, Bob SEGER, let’s listen to one of his songs: What did you think? Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… David Poole has something up his sleeve.Read more… Jacob Stulberg is all wet. Don’t tell him I said that.Read more… The return of John Westwig.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   Obama’s Plan to Meet Dalai Lama Draws Swift Chinese Rebuke. Advertisement President Obama plans to meet at the White House on Friday with the Dalai Lama, a visit that drew a swift rebuke from the Chinese government, which has tried to diminish the influence of the exiled Tibetan spiritual leader and his efforts to promote the autonomy of Tibet. The administration portrayed the visit as part of an effort to promote a “middle way” solution to the fate of Tibet, where China has been trying to tamp down a stubborn movement for greater autonomy that has involved the self-immolation of more than 125 Tibetans, mostly monks and nuns, since 2008. “The president will meet with the Dalai Lama in his capacity as an internationally respected religious and cultural leader,” said a statement issued late Thursday by Caitlin Hayden, a National Security Council spokeswoman. “The United States supports the Dalai Lama’s ‘middle way’ approach of neither assimilation nor independence for Tibetans in China,” Ms. Hayden said. “We will continue to urge the Chinese government to resume dialogue with the Dalai Lama or his representatives, without preconditions, as a means to reduce tensions.” But the Chinese Foreign Ministry criticized the planned visit just hours after it was announced, with a spokeswoman, Hua Chunying, urging that the meeting be canceled and calling it a “crude interference in China’s domestic affairs.” She said holding it would “seriously damage” already strained ties between China and the United States. The Chinese government considers the Tibetan spiritual leader a separatist, and bans open displays of his photograph in Tibet. In an article published in November, the top Communist Party official in Tibet signaled how China was planning to clamp down on the Dalai Lama’s ability to get his message out. “Strike hard against the reactionary propaganda,” Chen Quanguo, the party chief in Tibet, wrote in the party journal Qiushi. He said the government would confiscate illegal satellite dishes, heighten monitoring of online content and take other measures to prevent the dissemination of the Dalai Lama’s message in areas with Tibetan populations so that “the voice and image of the enemy forces and the Dalai clique are neither seen nor heard.” The Dalai Lama was also in Washington for a meeting Thursday with the American Enterprise Institute, a conservative organization. In a possible reflection of the political sensitivities of the meeting with Mr. Obama, it will not take place in the Oval Office, but rather in the White House’s map room. The White House visit comes as Washington’s relations with Beijing have already been strained by territorial disputes between China and key American allies, including Japan, South Korea and the Philippines, involving competing claims in the South China Sea and East China Sea. In 2009, Mr. Obama declined to meet with the Dalai Lama before a planned trip to China, a decision that was widely criticized. However, he did meet him after his return. This time, the meeting will occur before Mr. Obama’s April trip to Asia, when he will visit American allies in a trip that will bypass China. In the Foreign Ministry statement, Ms. Hua accused the United States of meddling in China’s internal affairs by going ahead with the visit. “It must be pointed out that Tibetan affairs are purely a domestic matter of China, and no foreign country has the right to meddle,” she said. “The Dalai is a political exile who for a long time has wielded the banner of religion to engage in anti-China separatist activities.” Chris Buckley contributed reporting. Sinosphere, the China blog of The New York Times, delivers intimate, authoritative coverage of the planet's most populous nation and its relationship with the rest of the world. Drawing on timely, engaging dispatches from The Times’ distinguished team of China correspondents, this blog brings readers into the debates and discussions taking place inside a fast-changing country and details the cultural, economic and political developments shaping the lives of 1.3 billion people. Some called on the government to send troops to the Middle East in retaliation to an Islamic State killing, while others cautioned that such a move could invite terrorism at home.Read more… The dissidents had won official recognition as refugees and had been previously detained in China for their activism, Chris Buckley reports.Read more… Human rights advocates listened with a mixture of incredulity and derision to the delegation’s responses on interrogation, Nick Cumming-Bruce reports. Read more… In the Philippines for an Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit, President Obama urged China to halt military activities on the disputed islands, Michael D. Shear reports. Read more… The dead, including women and children, were said to have been involved in a knife attack in September that left 50 people dead at a mine near the Kyrgyzstan border, Javier C. Hernández reports. Read more… Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Home   The Power of Sticker Shock. Advertisement Advertisement On Location By SARAH AMELAR FEB. 19, 2014 The idea of wrapping a house in giant graphic stickers, like the ones used for ads on city buses, appealed to Eric Chu the moment his architect suggested it. But then, Mr. Chu, 38, rarely shies away from trying something new. After starting a computer hardware and software business when he was barely 20, Mr. Chu, who was born in Taiwan, owned a restaurant, invested in real estate and designed furniture that he welded himself. As he put it, “I definitely approach life with a ‘why not?’ philosophy.” Like many Los Angeles homeowners whose property is zoned R-2 (or two-family), Mr. Chu had decided to replace the single, modest home on his lot with two houses — one to live in and the other to rent out. But as spacious backyards throughout the city give way to revenue-earning second units, the land between the front and back houses can be odd territory, where privacy is elusive. Applying colorful, blown-up photos to the exterior glass walls — allowing daytime views out, but not in — was the unconventional solution proposed by Mr. Chu’s architect, Whitney Sander, who runs Sander Architects with his wife, Catherine Holliss. For a lot nearly 150 feet deep but little more than 40 feet wide, Mr. Sander designed two three-story houses — Mr. Chu’s 2,200-square-foot unit and a slightly larger one behind — separated by a drive-in courtyard. Mr. Sander was planning to use translucent acrylic panels for the two walls that face each other when he chanced upon something much better: a perforated, adhesive-backed film, custom-printed by Astek Wallcoverings, which was suitable for floor-to-ceiling windows. A close-up photo Mr. Chu had snapped of a sapling, and then computer-manipulated, became the wrapping for those two facades. Suddenly, they could have it all: daylight, views out and privacy. (The sustainability-minded architects were also pleased to discover that the film offered another benefit: a 50 percent reduction in sun infiltration.) For the other facades, the designers chose a different strategy, veiling them in a sunshade of diagonal aluminum angles. But long before the building’s skin went up, the skeleton was stopping traffic, Mr. Sander said: “People would pull up in their cars and ask, ‘What’s going on?’ ” Passers-by were curious about the diagonal screen, as well as the quickly assembled structural-steel frame. Common to much of Mr. Sander’s work, it is a custom-modified prefab system of recycled-metal components typically used in pre-engineered warehouses or agricultural buildings. Advertisement One of those who stopped was Lucas Ma, an architect-turned-real-estate-investor, who was eyeing the rental unit. After it was completed two years ago, he and his wife, Joyce Wong, moved in with their young daughter. Mr. Chu now lives in the two-bedroom front house with his longtime girlfriend, Katie Freeman, 29, a massage therapist; one of the bedrooms is his office. The paired townhouses, which cost about $1.4 million, share a material and stylistic sensibility, with rooftop decks, floors of concrete, hardwood or bamboo, vivid ceramic tile, raw-steel stairways and professional-grade appliances. But they differ in layout: While the soaring, double-height main space in the tenants’ unit is a kitchen-and-dining area, it’s a living room in the owner’s home. “The front house feels very well suited to my needs,” Mr. Chu said. But since moving in, he added, he has learned at least one surprising thing: During the day, light-colored graphics offer more privacy than dark ones. Still, “that’s an easy fix,” he said. “We could swap the image. Maybe next time, it’ll be a photo of dandelions.” A version of this article appears in print on February 20, 2014, on page D6 of the New York edition with the headline: The Power of Sticker Shock. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe See More » Go to Home Page »
Movies   null
Science   Living With Cancer: Wigged Out Sign Up for the Running Email. Advertisement The targeted cancer drug extending my life is killing my hair. Especially at the top of my head, a beige scalp gleams through sparse black and white wires. For obvious reasons, I’m not complaining. During chemo, when I lost my hair before, I resorted to scarves and hats, assuming it would grow back. But now I need to continue taking the experimental pills in a clinical trial and therefore suspect that I will continue to lose, rather than regain, hair. To my eyes, male-pattern baldness looks worse (on me) than totally-bald cancer patient mindfully contemplating her mortality like a Buddhist nun. Not so to my haircutter. When I gave her a choice between President Obama and Captain Jean Luc Picard at my last appointment, she chose the President, albeit with a receding hairline. Susan Gubar writes about life with ovarian cancer.  The vast majority of people in cancer treatment suffer from an injured body and an injured body image. Baldness but also scars, lopsidedness, weight gain or loss, patches, rashes, prosthetic devices, output bags and ports function like billboards. Some courageous patients determine to expose themselves publicly in order to witness and protest the epidemic; others become agoraphobic, unwilling to leave home. Unfortunately, I dwell in the latter category. What wouldn’t I give now for the hair that drove me crazy in my teens? Thick and kinky, it led me to sleep with huge plastic rollers. To make it look like Cher’s, I would spend hours blow drying or ironing it or using chemicals to straighten it — which would work until the first inkling of humidity turned me into the Bride of Frankenstein. In my 50s, I finally relinquished Cher for a cropped Halle Berry, not that anyone would have discerned any resemblance whatsoever. Maybe the dream of moveable hair, crazed though it was, could rescue me, I determined as I phoned my friend Alexandra, a costume designer, for a date the next day. We drove to the only store in our small town that sells wigs. Its jokey name, though potentially objectionable to Native Americans, seemed a harbinger of moveable hair: The Wig Wam. Once inside the rickety house, we were greeted by Charlotte, the 80-something owner, who ushered us into an enclosed porch. After I took off my hat and Charlotte tousled what little hair I had, she assured me that I did not need to shave my head, wash the wig or do anything except — at this moment she grabbed her own hair and pulled it off her head — wear it and stay away from hot ovens. Why not have fun with this, Alex immediately proposed, bringing me a black shoulder-length mop fringed with red tips — perfect if I were auditioning for a movie version of “The Inferno.” But Charlotte firmly placed a short silver mane on my head, explaining that there was a woman who sat behind her in church who always tugged on the hair at the nape of her neck, to assure herself it was not real. If realism was the point, the synthetic wig was a dud. It looked like a rug, no question. But what a rug! Imagine Meg Ryan in her late 60s. It was definitely moveable hair: moveable bangs, moveable flip in the back, and moveable shaggy sides that could be partly tucked behind the ears and partly smoothed down before the ears against my cheeks. For days afterward it sat in the bathroom atop a phrenology bust that my husband donated from his study. The head’s scalp was divided into sections with letters and numbers so that 19th-century scientists could hazard guesses about real brains to prove that women of all races and all men except whites were endowed by their creator with alienable rights. Getting used to two faces was not easy. Without the wig I look like a sickly Jewish man. But with the wig I am a vibrant, if older, shiksa who could toss her moveable hair at any country club longingly visited by a Philip Roth protagonist. (I should add that in my family the Yiddish word for a non-Jewish woman is spoken with appreciation, not opprobrium.) The shiksa’s name is Sally. Sally draws on eyebrows, while I do not. Sally primps before the mirror, though I do not. Sally’s head is generally itchy, whereas mine is not. Ensconced in some free-floating anxiety about duplicity, I’m not trying to fool anyone, I assure myself. I swear that I am not attempting to pass. I won’t be her — I mean, I won’t wear it — all the time. Instead, I’ll let her — I’ll let it — help me get through select occasions. Still, the suspicion persists. Maybe I need my head examined, but ever since Meg Ryan was spotted at a coffee shop in town, I expect that someone will come up to Sally in the supermarket to ask for her autograph. Walking down the aisles, I decide to choose ingredients to cook something on the stove top (not in the oven) that Sally might enjoy. I’ll have what she’s having. Susan Gubar is a distinguished emerita professor of English at Indiana University and the author of “Memoir of a Debulked Woman,” which explores her experience with ovarian cancer. Your health questions answered by Times journalists and experts. Your Questions | All » Get Well's Running email for practical tips, expert advice, exclusive content and a bit of motivation delivered to your inbox every week to help you on your running journey. Coming soon. How much do you know about the amazing things that go on in your gut? Take our quiz to find out about the creepy, crawly critters living in your home. What surface is the most friendly to the flu virus? Where’s the best place to stand when you’re talking to a sick person? How does sleep affect health, relationships and well-being? The “Reading the Mind in the Eyes Test” measures ability to understand others’ emotional states. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   Women’s Figure Skating Live Updates. Advertisement Kim Yu-Na was knocked off the perch at the top of women’s figure skating by a young up-and-comer from Russia, Adelina Sotnikova, who used a boost from the home crowd to become the first Russian woman to win a gold medal in women’s singles. Kim, 23, the defending Olympic gold medalist took the ice with the pressure of trying to become the third woman ever to win a second gold medal in the event. She stayed on her feet, skating elegantly but without the command she showed in winning the event in Vancouver four years ago. Sotnikova put the pressure on with a spectacular long program that thrilled the Russian crowd. She seemed to gain strength from the crowd and the pressure of competing at a home Olympics, where the more highly touted teenager, the 15-year-old Yulia Lipnitskaya fell twice in her long program and slipped to fifth. Sotnikova, 17, hit all of her jumps and put up a strong long program score of 149.95 and that left the issue up to Kim, who skated last. Kim hit all of her elements, but did not match the score of Sotnikova. Carolina Kostner, the 27-year-old from Italy, won the bronze, the first medal in her three Olympic appearances. The American skaters in the final group, Gracie Gold and Ashley Wagner, skated well. Gold fell once, but otherwise put on a strong showing, and Wagner had an energetic, largely clean program. Gold finished fourth and Wagner seventh.  See all of the jumps from the women’s free skate.  Sotnikova’s skate had a little more pop, a little more emotional risk, and she is rewarded for her bravery under pressure. Kim will go down as one of the greatest women’s skaters of all time, but not a back-to-back Olympic gold medalist. No, no, no, Yuna is in second? Adelina Sotnikova of Russia wins the Olympic gold. Carolina Kostner is in third. — Juliet Macur (@JulietMacur) 20 Feb 14 — JOANNE C. GERSTNER And the Olympic champion is … Sotnikova. Kim scores a 144.19, for a total of 219.11. Sotnikova wins because she did seven triples. Kim had 6. Kostner wins bronze. — JOANNE C. GERSTNER And we have reached the end, with the reigning champion Kim. She knew exactly what she had to do to retain her crown. Hard to tell if she was stressed, as Kim looked so composed and sure. Felt like she would do the same perfect skate in an empty rink, or before the whole world. It was a smart, precise skate. Not even a smile at the end, like she knew this was business as usual. — JOANNE C. GERSTNER  The American Ashley Wagner is happy with her free skate. She stayed on her feet, and looked confident. Any doubters about her placement, after her weak nationals, should be quieted. But she could have some deductions on her jumps, for two-footing. The opening combo was definitely under-rotated on the back end triple toe. Wagner is sixth, scoring 193.20. Her free earned 127.99. Sotnikova leads, Kostner second, and Gold third. — JOANNE C. GERSTNER  Wagner delivered the goods in the team event a sharp contrast from her performance at nationals in Boston last month. Ashley Wagner ends up in 6th. She didn’t bring down the house. But, as I said before, the judges here just don’t like her. — Juliet Macur (@JulietMacur) 20 Feb 14 — MARY PILON The American Gracie Gold had to know that her free had to be a no-mistake zone in order to be in medal contention. She fell on her triple flip attempt but had the strength to pull it together and skate clean the rest of the program. There were a lot of strong elements, especially her opening triple loop-triple toe. Nice job by Gold, but no medal in Sochi. Gold moves into third, with a 205.53. Personal best score. Gracie Gold might look like Barbie, but she’s one tough athlete. She’s exceeded expectations here, no matter where she finishes. — Juliet Macur (@JulietMacur) 20 Feb 14 — JOANNE C. GERSTNER  Adelina Sotnikova might have just cheered up an entire country with that long program. Russia, crushed by its men’s hockey team’s flop, had turned to women’s figure skating for some measure of joy. Yulia Lipnitskaya couldn’t hold up under that pressure. Sotnikova did hold up, soaring through her long program to climb into first place, where she will put the pressure on Kim Yu-na, who skates last. Russia’s Adelina Sotnikova is in first now, and the crowd erupts in cheers. Was she better than Kostner, though? Debatable. — Juliet Macur (@JulietMacur) 20 Feb 14 — LYNN ZINSER Russia’s Adelina Sotnikova has been the night’s best skater, so far, throwing down a new standard with her effortless – and nearly perfect – program. She was on fire. Great, and unusual, choreography, too. Sotinkova, who came in second to Kim Yu-na in the short, has showed she is here to win. She looks thrilled with her skate, covering her mouth with her hands in happy shock. Mary reports from the Palace that it’s “impossible to count the number of Russian flags waving for Sotnikova right now. This is by far the biggest applause I’ve seen here for anyone, and the poor flower-fetch girls are barely keeping up with the bouquets being tossed out.” The crowd, anxious for her score, begins chanting furiously. HUGE score for Sotinkova, 149.95, moving into first with a 224.59. That’s 22 points above her season’s best total. Shock and happiness in kiss-and-cry. Sotnikova is 8 points ahead of Kostner in second place. Adelina Sotnikova eggs the crowd on with her hands, just like an NBA player would. She just finished & flowers are raining onto the ice. — Juliet Macur (@JulietMacur) 20 Feb 14 — JOANNE C. GERSTNER  Yulia Lipnitskaya found her way to the ice twice and generally unraveled in her long program, hushing the Russian crowd and proving that this would not be the Games remembered for the 15-year-olds. Just to prove the point, Carolina Kostner, a 27-year-old from Italy, followed her onto the ice and captivated the crowd while skating to “Bolero.” No, she does not have the jumping prowess and pure athleticism of kids like Lipnitskaya, but she owns the ice when she’s on it — and she didn’t fall. She scored more than 7 points higher than Lipnitskaya. — LYNN ZINSER Behold the difference between a teen and a woman skating. Italy’s Carolina Kostner just performed with grace, poise, and a veteran’s sensibility. She skated clean, looking like a woman on a mission. She had a smile on her face throughout the performance and seemed like she truly enjoyed it. Kostner, who was third after the short, has a strong chance to become the first Italian woman to win a medal in singles skating. She scores 142.61, for a 216.73, moving into first with season’s bests for the free and total scores. Lipnitskyaya is second, Asada third. — JOANNE C. GERSTNER  The Russian breakout star Julia Lipnitskaya kicks off the final group. Even though we’ve seen this program already in the team competition, it’s still stunning. Like a movie you can watch over and over. However, the movie had a bad ending this time, as she looked more like a stressed 15-year-old, falling on the triple salchow, and a wonky landing on another. She is the future, just now wasn’t her time. She moves into first, ahead of Asada, with a 200.57. She scored a 135.34 for the free. She looks really stressed and sad in the kiss-and-cry, hopefully a little time and space – and her gold medal from the team event – will provide some post-Sochi solace. Wrong that a 15-year-old is going to feel like a failure after skating in the final group of her 1st Olympics — Christopher Clarey (@christophclarey) 20 Feb 14 — JOANNE C. GERSTNER  Here are the final six competitors and the music they have chosen for the most important skate of their lives. Yulia Lipnitskaya of Russia (fifth place after the short program) skates to the score of “Schindler’s List” by the prolific movie composer John Williams. Even if you haven’t heard the score, you’ll be able to guess that’s some pretty heavy-duty seriousness for the 15-year-old Lipnitskaya. Carolina Kostner of Italy (third) chooses “Bolero” by Maurice Ravel. No matter how many great Boleros we see skated for the rest of our lives, none is likely to compare to Torvill and Dean’s famous 1984 ice dancing program that received 12 perfect 6.0’s. Adelina Sotnikova of Russia (second) picks the unheralded “Introduction” and “Rondo Capriccioso” by Camille Saint-Saens. Gracie Gold of the United States (fourth) opts for “Sleeping Beauty” by Tchaikovsky, though not the most famous bit that Disney co-opted into “Once Upon a Dream” for the cartoon. And which composer is the top choice of the top six women at the 2014 Sochi Olympics? Step forward, Camille Saint-Saens. Ashley Wagner of the United States (sixth) skates to music from his opera Samson and Delilah. Great job, Camille! And the final skater, first placed Kim Yu-na of South Korea, goes for the gold to something a little different: “Adios Nonino,” a tango written by the Argentine musician Astor Piazzolla. Good luck to all six. Let’s watch and listen. — VICTOR MATHER The current standings situation evokes the men’s long program last week heading into the final group. Dennis Ten of Kazakhstan was in ninth place after the short program, then came out in the second-to-last group and put down a really strong long program. He sat on top while skater after skater faltered. He ended up with a bronze medal. Asada’s score is very good, and should enough of the skaters in the last group find their way to the ice, she could end up a lot higher than she expects. — LYNN ZINSER Weinzierl is not putting together the points, with too many doubled jumps and too many planned doubles. Got to go with the triple, and a lot of them, or go home. Can’t cheat yourself on points at the Olympics and expect a good finish. Weinzierl scores 147.36 for a total of 151.88, good for 12th place. Wasn’t a great skate. — JOANNE C. GERSTNER  Polina Edmunds, by stocking her program with difficult jumps and skating with the abandon that only a 15-year-old can muster, announced herself as a contender in the future, but she didn’t put together a strong enough program to move her timeline up to this year. She sits clearly on the youngsters’ side of the divide, as far as the overall strength and maturity of her program. Will be interesting to see what age and experience will add to the mix. — LYNN ZINSER   Mao Asada is one of a handful of women to perform a triple axel in competition. Coming after a disastrous short program performance, she landed the most difficult jump to be attempted in this event, boosting her score. — THE NEW YORK TIMES  The American Paulina Edmunds is doing something not recommended: making the Olympics her first senior international competition. Think about that one. Countries send skaters all over the world to gain experience to be ready for the Olympics. Edmunds is starting off the Big Show. As Mary says, though: “I never looked that relaxed when I was 15. Ever. My theory stands that young skaters are like young skiers. They often have a fearlessness that serves them well. Edmunds is a case in point.” Edmunds fell on her triple flip, but over all a lovely skate for the 15-year-old Californian. She looked calm and confident. Edmunds needs to upgrade to a triple axel, but the future is indeed bright. The 15-yr-old Polina Edmunds is skating now. Such long arms & legs. Looks like a puppy yet to grow into its limbs. She’ll be a star by 2018. — Juliet Macur (@JulietMacur) 20 Feb 14 — JOANNE C. GERSTNER  Italy’s Valentina Marchei’s performance is classy, mature and quiet, perhaps a little too quiet. Polite applause when she is done. Last combination was popped a little. One oops: she did not finish on time with the music. She scores 173.33, moves into fourth. Asada still first, Suzuki second and Meite third. — JOANNE C. GERSTNER A striking difference between figure skating on TV and in-person — and this may sound silly — but you really understand how big and lonely that sheet of ice is and how brave these women are. And the sucker punch to the gut when a skater falls is even worse when you’re sharing it with 12,000 other people. — MARY PILON Japan’s Akiko Suzuki is usually outstanding for her lightness on the ice. Her free had some scary moments on jumping passes, getting a little close to the boards. Thankfully, she didn’t crash, but had to append a triple lutz landing to avoid disaster. Mary was just happy that, “I’m hearing the music from ‘Phantom of the Opera,’ and no lighting fixtures fell to the ground.” Suzuki scores 186.32, putting her in second. — JOANNE C. GERSTNER  In a sea of girls wearing less-than-distinctive skating dresses and skating to traditional music, Mae Berenice Meite of France stands out and adds a dash of the unique. Not only did she rock an unusual outfit with black tights, she worked ZZ Top into her music. And she skated with fantastic energy. It’s the kind of performance you wish there were more of, just for variety’s sake alone. Meite of France wins the coolest music of the night gold medal. An acoustic, electric-guitar heavy version of We Will Rock You. — Juliet Macur (@JulietMacur) 20 Feb 14 — LYNN ZINSER  Holy shades of Surya Bonaly – the skating pants outfit is in the house with Mae Berenice Meite of France. She has black formfitting pants, and a sparkly silver and blue top on. Too bad she fell on the triple loop. At the Palace, Mary says, “I think if you’re from France and the reigning national champ, you can pull that kind of thing off. I’m extremely pro the use of Queen in figure skating. Crowd is clapping along to Meite’s rocking out. If there was a people’s choice award thus far, I think Meite would win it. She connected with the crowd.” Sadly, though, Mary, you do not get extra points for playing air guitar at the Olympics, but credit to Meite for having fun. She recovered nicely from the botched triple loop. Meite moves into second, with a season-best 174.53 total score. Asada still leads at 198.22. — JOANNE C. GERSTNER  Another strong jumper from China, Li Zijun, kicks off the third group. She was 11th after the short. She’s only 17, and needs to add some emotion and artistry to her skates. This skate never seemed to go anywhere or tell a story. Li scored 181.56 total, and is in fourth place. — JOANNE C. GERSTNER France’s Mae Berenice is wearing a sleeveless sparkly top and black tights. I love the outfit. Go, pants! She looks like a strong rocker. — Juliet Macur (@JulietMacur) 20 Feb 14 A correction to our earlier post. The only pop selection on tonight’s program, for the skate of Mae Berenice Meite of France, will not be a Santana/Queen/ZZ Top medley. It will be a Jean-Pierre Danel/Queen/ZZ Top medley. Haven’t heard of Jean-Pierre Danel? Why not? He won the prestigious Grand Prix Français de la Guitare award in 2007! Other than that delightfully wacky choice, it’s hoary old chestnuts for this third set of skaters: the ballet “Coppelia” (Li Zijun), “Phantom of the Opera” (Akiko Suzuki), “Peer Gynt” (Polina Edmunds) and “Rhapsody in Blue” (Nathalie Weinzierl). The exception is Valentina Marchei of Italy, who has chosen “Nyah.” Not a work with which we were previously familiar. It turns out to be a flamenco from the “Mission: Impossible II” soundtrack. Oh yeah, that’s right: the famous Ving Rhames-Tom Cruise flamenco scene. How did we forget? — VICTOR MATHER Zijun Li (China), Mae Berenice Meite (France), Akiko Suzuki (Japan), Valentina Marchei (Italy), Polina Edmunds (U.S.) and Nathalie Weinzierl (Germany) are waiting for the ice to be prepared. 15-yr-old skating wizard @PolinaEdmunds, hot off a great short program, now warming up. Our story: http://t.co/E6tRShWU7l #Sochi2014 — Mary Pilon (@marypilon) 20 Feb 14 — JOANNE C. GERSTNER Mao Asada answered the question as to how she would respond from her terrible short program, and she also struck a blow for experience. It seems as if this field is evenly split between veteran skaters and teenagers making their first leaps into the senior circuit. While the youngsters add bounce to the jumps and don’t seem to tire in the tough minutes of a four-and-a-half-minute program, they don’t add the grace and presence of skaters like Asada and Kim and Carolina Kostner. It has long been the tension in women’s/girls’ skating, over which is more important. As the progress in doing harder and harder jumps has slowed, it seems that experience and grace have become more valued. Poor Mao is weeping after skating a wonderful program. She looked beautiful & free out there. That’s what happens when there’s no pressure. — Juliet Macur (@JulietMacur) 20 Feb 14 — LYNN ZINSER Asada finally gives a punch of energy to the stands. One Japanese reporter told me before the competition, “I’m only here for Asada.” She’s not used to skating in the first half of the program and her fans are not used to seeing it. — MARY PILON My heart breaks for Mao Asada. She had such high hopes coming into Sochi, wanting to contend for gold. Asada, who was 16th after the short, will not win another Olympic medal — but she won back some measure of self-respect. Her free was what Asada’s fans have come to know: fluid, graceful, soulful, and yes, she killed every jump, including the triple axel. She looked like a two-time world champion. So good, leaving everybody, including Asada, to wonder what might of been if that short program had not been so bad. Happy she is ending her Olympic career on a high note. Asada is crying as she waves to the crowd. She is clearly emotional. And the tears have melted into a smile. She moves into first place, with a 142.71 free score, overall 198.22. She looks happy — JOANNE C. GERSTNER  This group is a window into figure skating’s rise in Asia, with young skaters from Japan and China and South Korea. This is part of a new generation coming up, having followed the path of skaters like Mao Asada, who skates last in this group, and Kim Yu-na, as well as China’s successful pairs skaters from recent Olympics. Japan had high hopes of breaking through in these Olympics, but the short program did not go well for Asada, or Kanako Murakami or Asiko Suzuki. The sense, though, is that they are part of a wave coming up. — LYNN ZINSER China’s Kexin Zhang is known for her jumping. That part is killer. But the artistic touch, especially to the parts of her program that had tango music, was lacking. The tango is a dance of passion, and Zhang seemed stuck on mechanical. Zhang moves into third, scoring a total of 154.21. Mao Asada next, last skater in Group 2. — JOANNE C. GERSTNER  Japan’s Kanako Murakami, who came into the free in 15th place, is a quiet and graceful skater. But like the rest of the Japanese contingent, this is a disappointing Olympics. Her free was stronger than the short, but it was still marred by under-rotation issues on jumps. Technical review probably getting monitors fired up now. Murakami scores 115.38, for a 170.98 total, to move into first place. That’s 26 points off her season’s best total score. Not her best. — JOANNE C. GERSTNER  “Bittersweet Symphony” by the Verve is the in-arena transition music playing right now. Seems like an appropriate choice. — MARY PILON Korea’s second skater, Kim Haejin, has been operating in the long shadow of Kim Yu-na. She took the national titles while Kim Yu-na was on competitive hiatus between Olympics. Kim Haejin fell hard on her triple lutz attempt, sliding into the boards. She recovered, got up, and finished the second half of the program. She bit her lip when the routine was over, as if to say, “Ouch.” Kim moves into second place, scoring a 95.11 for the free, total of 149.48. — JOANNE C. GERSTNER  Someday, we’ll open a bar called the “Triple Lutz” and the signature cocktails will be the “Layback Spin,” the “Double Axel” and the “Flying Camel Spin.” — MARY PILON The skater from Georgia, Elene Gedevanishvili, did not country shop to get to the Olympics, but she has done a lot of hopping around. She was born in Georgia, but with few rinks there, she and her mother moved to Russia. But Georgia and Russia don’t have the best diplomatic relations, so the two eventually packed up for the United States. After a few hops around, Gedevanishvili is now in Toronto with Brian Orser as her coach. All the movement hasn’t necessarily been a good thing. — LYNN ZINSER Georgia’s Elene Gedevanishvili looked tentative going into her triple lutz, the second jump of her program, and her nerves were right: she fell on the landing. The mistake seemed to take the emotional connection and overall mojo out of her free skate. Gedevanishvili scored 92.45, for 147.15 total, moving her into third place. — JOANNE C. GERSTNER  Mood in the stands is still tepid, but there are dozens of Kim banners around the arena, as in, ones with her face printed on them, and Russian flags, just itching to be unfurled. Much as the Japanese fans cheered on Yuzuru Hanyu in the men’s singles competition, at times overtaking the Russians on their own turf, expect the South Korean fans to go bonkers in a similar fashion. — MARY PILON  Canada’s Kaetlyn Osmond wins the night’s award (so far) for the most blinged-out outfit. The illusion neckline and back of her crimson-hued dress are covered in large colored stones. Her free-skate theme was Cleopatra, and she went for the drama and sparkle. She tired in the second half of the program, falling on a jumping pass. Big smile from her, amid her gasps for air, at the end. She hasn’t competed much this season because of a foot injury, so her endurance is probably down a bit. Osmond is happy, scoring a season-best 112.80, putting her in first with a total score of 168.98. — JOANNE C. GERSTNER There are two announcers in the arena, one has a tranquil female voice, similar to what New Yorkers hear on the subway. The other, a sinister male voice of darkness that I’ve strangely grown fond of over the days. But when they recite the bios of the skaters (“She likes photography”) it sounds a little like a dating website profile. — MARY PILON Hard to believe Mao Asada, the silver medalist in Vancouver, is in the second group. Her short program was a skating catastrophe, and she ended it in tears. She finished lower than even her two Japanese teammates. Before Wednesday, Asada was still considered Kim Yu-na’s major rival. But when an Olympics rides on a skinny little blade, just about anything can happen. Will be interesting to see if Asada can put aside the short program and skate at her usual level. — LYNN ZINSER Our next group of selections includes music from three very different movies: Kaetlyn Osmond of Canada chooses music from “Asterix & Obelisk: Mission Cleopatre,” which starred Gerard Depardieu, because every French movie stars Gerard Depardieu. The entire history of polyphonic music to choose from, and she picks the score from a sequel to a French slapstick movie? Kim Haejin of South Korea chooses music from “Black Swan.” The entire history of polyphonic music to choose from and she picks the score to an artsy psychosexual horror film? Well, that one we kind of buy. And Kanako Murakami of Japan will skate to “Papa Can You Hear Me?” from the Barbra Streisand musical “Yentl.” This same piece was used in the short program by Nicole Rajicova of Slovakia. Figure skaters apparently love “Yentl”! — VICTOR MATHER Kaetlyn Osmond (Canada), Elene Gedevanishvili (Georgia), Kim Haejin (South Korea), Kanako Murakami (Japan), Kexin Zhang (China) and Mao Asada (Japan) are on the ice. — JOANNE C. GERSTNER  Some of the early skaters chose very up-tempo music but didn’t bring along the ability to skate along with it. For the audience, peppy music helps keep the energy up, especially if the skater is subpar, but when the skating on the ice seems to be moving three times slower, the whole thing seems like you’re watching on tape delay. — LYNN ZINSER Slovakia’s Nicole Rajicova’s free skate was kind of flat. These skaters are definitely the undercard for the main event. She looked quite nervous and mechanical at times. The jumps were especially rough. Rajicova ends the first group with an underwhelming 125.00 total. She is in sixth. Daleman leads, Han second, and Park third. — JOANNE C. GERSTNER Gjersem was illustrative of what you will see in the first 8-10 skaters of the night: slower speed, less choreography going into jumps, and jumps really telegraphed by the skater going half-way across the sheet to build momentum. The stronger skaters blend the technique, dance, and flow into one seamless package. That’s the jump (no pun intended) from elite to Olympic medalist. Daleman still leads, after four skaters. Gjersem scored 85.98, for a total of 134.54. Goodness gracious, 4 minutes feels like 4 hours when a lower-tier skater is performing the free skate. Does it feel that long for them, too? — Juliet Macur (@JulietMacur) 20 Feb 14 — JOANNE C. GERSTNER  While Anne Line Gjersem is on the ice, a strange factoid about Norway. The Norwegians are a Winter Olympic powerhouse and are currently leading the medal table. But they have not won a medal in women’s singles since Sonja Henie won gold in 1936. My colleague Lynn Zinser points out, not only has Norway not won a medal, it hasn’t had a competitor in women’s figure skating in 50 years. The last Norwegian who skated in the Olympics was in 1964. — MARY PILON  Elizaveta Ukolova of the Czech Republic has made the first daring non-Johnny Weir fashion statement of the evening, with a sparkly paisley-print sheer overlay on a beige-colored dress. Her skating was not as cool, as she tripped and fell on two jumps. Another junior making the jump to senior level. Ukolova was hit with deductions, scoring 84.55, the lowest score so far for the free. She finishes with a 136.42. — JOANNE C. GERSTNER The energy with these first few skaters in the crowd is really flat. The night is young, but still, this is an Olympic final. Incredible how the momentum on the ice changes once a Russian skater appears. They’re not on until the second half. Not to take the attention from the Canadian Daleman, but some of her teammates are engaged in a battle for the women’s curling gold medal not far away at the Ice Cube. Last I checked, they were tied with Sweden! Stone-biter! — MARY PILON This is not new, but a trend that seems to be growing in the Winter Olympics after reaching huge proportions in the Summer Games. Han is the latest example of what appears to be country-shopping for Olympic berths. Han was born in Massachusetts, trains in Connecticut and represents Australia (her father is Australian). In this sport, there isn’t much competition for that Australian Olympic team, but it must be a little odd for Australians to feel some pull to root for a skater who just seems to have borrowed the flag. — LYNN ZINSER  Canada’s Gabrielle Daleman is up, another in a string of teenagers in their first Olympics. She is 16, and is seen as Canada’s future Olympic star. Again, an opening jumping pass revealed nerves, as Daleman put her hands down to save both landings on her triple lutz-triple toe pass. She noticeably slowed in the second half of the program, common for younger skaters at the senior level. Endurance comes with experience. — JOANNE C. GERSTNER New #sochi2014 security concern: a mime has made his way into figure skating, pestering fans…silently. http://t.co/kFesTMqfpj — Mary Pilon (@marypilon) 20 Feb 14 Two skaters, two falls on triple lutz attempts. Brooklee Han of Australia struggled on her lutz, and fell hard on the first pass. Han, who lives and trains in Connecticut, appeared to be a little off on other jump landings too — but still held on. Falling on a jump is an automatic 1-point deduction. So hang on to every jump landing for dear life. Han finishes her first Olympics with a 94.52 for the free, for a 143.84. — JOANNE C. GERSTNER Park of South Korea, the 16-year-old protégé of Kim, fell on both lutz attempts. She looked nervous, a bit stiff in her program. But credit her for a lovely outfit, a shimmering midnight-blue dress with a sky-blue swoosh up the front. She looked pretty. — JOANNE C. GERSTNER The presence of Park So-youn in the Olympic free skate raises a question: Is there a wave of talented South Korean figure skaters poised to follow Kim Yu-na into the sport? It is conceivable that Kim could do for skating in her country what Se Ri Pak did for women’s golf. This could even be accelerated because South Korea will host the next Winter Olympics, raising the profile — and the stakes — even more. Kim would be known as the Queen for more than just her on-ice performances. — LYNN ZINSER Keeping with Sochi tradition, it’s starting time at the Iceberg Skating Palace, and the arena is barely two-thirds full. By the first pass of the ice-resurfacing machine, it is likely to be packed, but there is a consistent lack of interest from fans in the first batch of skaters. It must be really difficult to be a skater from South Korea who is not Kim Yu-na. — MARY PILON  Park So-Youn of South Korea will skate to “Rhapsody on a Theme by Paganini” by Rachmaninoff. If you’re not a classical music buff but you still recognize the haunting melody, that’s because it has been used in dozens of romantic movies over the years, notably “Somewhere in Time.” Gabrielle Daleman of Canada will skate to the Polovetsian Dances from the opera “Prince Igor.” If you are not an opera buff but still recognize the haunting melody … that’s because it’s also “Stranger in Paradise” from the musical “Kismet,” as recorded by Tony Bennett, Bing Crosby and others. Nicole Rajicova of Slovakia skates to “Tango Amore” by Edvin Marton, You won’t recognize this one, but did you know that Edvin Marton is a Ukrainian composer who wrote the winning song at the 2008 Eurovision Song Contest and is known as the violinist of the skaters? — VICTOR MATHER Park So-youn (Korea), Brooklee Han (Australia), Gabrielle Daleman (Canada), Elizaveta Ukolova (Czech Republic), Anne Line Gjersem (Norway) and Nicole Rajicova (Slovakia). — JOANNE C. GERSTNER The NBCSN commentators Johnny Weir and Tara Lipinski have hauled out major fashion for the free skate. It looks like they have coordinated their outfits: gold headbands and gold jewelry. Lipinski has a gold blouse on, while Weir has gone with a white shirt and black jacket. Très chic. — JOANNE C. GERSTNER In addition to analyzing every salchow and toe loop, we’ll also be filling you in on the musical selections the women have chosen tonight. The short program featured a wide range of musical genres, including Sondheim, the Rolling Stones, Prince, Pink Floyd and Queen. The skaters are playing it much safer in tonight’s long program. Of the 24 women on the ice, 11 have chosen classical pieces, including some chestnuts you’ve heard at many skating events. Seven have opted for that other classic skating genre: movie scores. Four have chosen traditional dance music (mostly tangos), and there will be two Broadway songs and just one a pop selection. But that pop selection promises to be a doozy: a Santana, Queen, ZZ Top medley! — VICTOR MATHER Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Travel   Sardinian Food and History, Via Bike. Advertisement Ciclismo Classico has enlisted the skills of a James Beard Award-winning chef (and former competitor on Bravo’s “Top Chef Masters”) to entice tourists into a culinary-focused bike tour through Sardinia. The tour will be a combination of eating and exercise, with the Boston chef Jody Adams as host. Ms. Adams, owner of the restaurants Rialto and Trade and an avid bicyclist who has pedaled across the state of Massachusetts on several occasions, will guide this seven-day, almost 200-mile cycle trip through the Mediterranean island, stopping to taste local wines and cuisine. Riders will begin in Tresnuraghes, in the west, continuing along the coast to the Sinis peninsula and Cabras, then will turn southeast to end in Pula at the island’s southern tip. “I realized that riding was a great way to see the world,” Ms. Adams, who has led several other bike tours through Italy, told The Boston Globe. “It’s a wonderful way to be in the world as you move through life. It makes you feel powerful.” Rialto typically offers a rotating menu of regional Italian foods, with Sardinian cuisine often featured in the summer months. Riders on the tour obviously will be stopping for a few samples along the way, from vineyards, olive groves, markets and local restaurants. But they will also visit some of the island’s historic sites, like mining towns, ancient Phoenician and Roman settlements and archaeological dig sites. The first trip runs Sept. 30 to Oct. 6, at a starting rate of $5,395. A second new tour this year turns to Belgian beer for inspiration. Though neither bike tours nor beer-drinking are revolutionary in the country (it produces more than a thousand different beers each year and biking is the national sport, after all), this trip focuses on boutique establishments like the Brasserie d’Orval, one of the last remaining breweries of the Trappist monks. The nine-day tour mixes in a little history as well, with stops in the hills of Ardennes, where the Battle of the Bulge took place, as well as in Luxembourg, Flanders and Bruges. The tour runs once a month in June, July and August, starting at a rate of $4,495. A version of this article appears in print on 03/02/2014, on page TR3 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Eat and Explore: Building an Appetite in Sardinia. In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
U.S.   Selected Emails Released in Wisconsin. Advertisement Advertisement Thousands of pages of email messages were released on Wednesday in connection with a secret criminal investigation into whether campaigning had been conducted on government time in a county office once led by Scott Walker, now the governor of Wisconsin. These are just a handful. FEB. 19, 2014
Books   Artistic Forecasts, From Sun to Snow Artistic Forecasts, From Sun to Snow. LEONORA CARRINGTON 176 pages. Irish Museum of Modern Art/D.A.P. $55. The Irish-English artist Leonora Carrington (1917-2011) elbowed herself into the Surrealist movement in quite realistic fashion: She ran off to Paris with Max Ernst. Her dalliance with her fellow Surrealist aside, though, Carrington had the goods. CreditPatricia Wall/The New York Times 1 of 10 New books include “Love Always Everywhere” and “There’s This Thing.” By DANA JENNINGS FEB. 20, 2014 We do obsess about the weather. We gab and gossip about it, inhale it via the Weather Channel, brood on it out the kitchen window over morning coffee. The old radio farm reports had it right: Give ’em the weather and the wheat prices, and you got ’em hooked. In much the same way that we can’t resist the external weather, the very best artists summon interior weathers that mesmerize us, psychic precip and visceral barometric pressures that move us. Think about Bob Dylan’s cryptic winds and Johnny Cash’s dark thunder, Emily Dickinson’s attic squalls and Billy Collins’s amused zephyrs, van Gogh’s anguished gusts and Pollock’s furious typhoons. The five artists in the books here pass the weather test. The qualities of heat and light — of profound interior weathers — in their works are gripping, and sometimes haunting.  
Business   Bad Egg. Advertisement By Evan Birnholz Feb 22, 2014 The New York Times Crossword is available through subscription only. SATURDAY’S PUZZLE — Something wicked this way comes. There’s a nefarious element to today’s puzzle with entries like BLACK MAGIC, PIRATE SHIP, and METH, to name a few. It’s the calling card of our constructor, Evan Birnholz, who has a knack for whipping up puzzles with a more devious bent. There’s a BAD EGG or two to be found among those people mentioned in today’s clues and answers. Early on we see Johnny Cash’s infamous lyric “I SHOT a man in Reno” from “Folsom Prison Blues,” and then a few entries later we come across OMAR Little, the shotgun-wielding Robin Hood figure from the TV show “The Wire” whose lethal tendencies will make you want to STAY AT HOME. But fear not, because the puzzle isn’t all bad guys and things that go bump in the night. We also come across ARCHANGELS and a good SAMARITAN. Let’s hear a bit more about Evan’s creative process: I’d like to take a second to plug my brand-new, independent crossword website Devil Cross. I release a new puzzle every other Saturday and though I ran one last week, I decided to drop a new one on Friday, and it’s a contest puzzle! (Fair warning: Devil Cross puzzles may contain some R-rated language that you won’t see in a Times puzzle) I wrote this puzzle in March 2013 and it was just my fourth attempt at a themeless grid. At the time I hadn’t been having much success with themed puzzles, so I turned to themeless construction. Now, I enjoy creating themeless grids the most since they give you the freedom to experiment with fresh, fun phrases in a way that themed puzzles don’t. DOMINATRIX was my seed entry and I built upward. I like many of the long phrases I got in there, but this puzzle shows my impatience to submit it since it has more short, less-than-stellar entries than I would normally prefer today (things like RESOW, AREAR, SALMI, DE ORO, I SHOT and SNEE). If I could rework the grid now I might try putting DOMINATRIX in a different position just to see if the fill would be cleaner. It’s probably a little strange seeing her on the bottom rather than on top, no? The gentleman whose puzzle will appear in tomorrow’s Sunday Times (Victor Fleming) was my mentor on themeless construction. He was critical of my first couple of attempts, but his criticism ended up helping me a lot. It gave me the focus to keep striving to create the best grid possible. So while I have my own qualms about this puzzle, I still think it’s good, and my themeless grids have gotten progressively better since I made it. For today’s video, here’s a clip of JIMI Hendrix’s song “Voodoo Child.” What did you think? Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… David Poole has something up his sleeve.Read more… Jacob Stulberg is all wet. Don’t tell him I said that.Read more… The return of John Westwig.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Food   Melissa Clark. The author and cook Melissa Clark takes you into her kitchen to show you how easy it can be to make exquisite and delicious meals.          Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics Best of Obama's Correspondents' Dinner Speech Kim Jong-un Boasts of Nuclear Strides So You Want to Do a Handstand? Erdogan’s March to Autocracy in Turkey How Will Obama Spend His Retirement? Coconut Cluster Granola Kasich Above the Fray Mass Evacuation From Fire in Alberta I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked
Foreign   Emulating a Model Communist Through Cosmetic Surgery. Advertisement For the poor, the homeless, people down on their luck in the central province of Anhui, Zhang Yidong has often been there to help. He has made a career of raising money and public interest to help the downtrodden. He has also made something of a name for himself in the process, so much so that Chinese media outlets call him a “public welfare celebrity.” He is often compared to Lei Feng, the young People’s Liberation Army soldier trumpeted as a Communist Party icon for his unstinting devotion to his comrades. Mr. Zhang says he considers Lei Feng, the so-called rustless screw of Mao’s revolution, to be a role model. And now he has taken his emulation to the next step. This week he began a series of cosmetic procedures as part of an effort to look like Lei Feng. “No matter how open or developed China becomes, we can’t forget the Lei Feng spirit,” Mr. Zhang said in an interview. “Through this activity I want to tell even more people that to study Lei Feng, we can’t just engage in slogans.” Mr. Zhang says that by changing his appearance he hopes to raise public awareness of Lei Feng, whose fame saw a mild resurgence two years ago thanks to a vigorous propaganda push tied to the 50th anniversary of his death. Lei Feng, who died at the age of 22 in 1962 when he was hit by a falling telephone pole, is known in China as a symbol of selflessness and devotion to the cause of communism. He sewed quilts and darned socks for his fellow soldiers, assiduously studied Mao’s writings at night by flashlight and collected weighty loads of cow dung for fertilizer. Those exploits and most of his biography itself have come under close scrutiny in recent years by scholars and average Chinese alike who point to the suspect signs of propaganda: well-lit photos of a supposedly average soldier, a detailed diary full of expressions of loyalty and an all-too-well-honed image. Like Lei Feng, Mr. Zhang has at times found his record under question. Last year he participated in an event with Chen Guangbiao, a recycling tycoon and philanthropist known for brazen acts of self-publicity. Mr. Chen wanted to award 800,000 renminbi, about $130,000, to Mr. Zhang to help carry out his charitable work. Mr. Zhang declined, and online many people suggested the exchange was merely a ruse to help boost both men’s profiles. Mr. Zhang says he welcomes the scrutiny, and argues that serving the public interest requires a certain amount of bombast. “I think criticism is good,” he said. “It shows people are paying attention.” Mr. Zhang’s makeover, which is being provided free of cost by a hospital in the city of Hefei, began on Thursday with a series of injections of the dermal filler Restylane. The goal of the process is one that many who visit a plastic surgeon can identify with. “It involves some skin rejuvenation and microsurgery to help my face look like Lei Feng’s,” said Mr. Zhang, who at 32 is 10 years older than his hero at the time of his death. “Lei Feng, he was very young.” Sinosphere, the China blog of The New York Times, delivers intimate, authoritative coverage of the planet's most populous nation and its relationship with the rest of the world. Drawing on timely, engaging dispatches from The Times’ distinguished team of China correspondents, this blog brings readers into the debates and discussions taking place inside a fast-changing country and details the cultural, economic and political developments shaping the lives of 1.3 billion people. Some called on the government to send troops to the Middle East in retaliation to an Islamic State killing, while others cautioned that such a move could invite terrorism at home.Read more… The dissidents had won official recognition as refugees and had been previously detained in China for their activism, Chris Buckley reports.Read more… Human rights advocates listened with a mixture of incredulity and derision to the delegation’s responses on interrogation, Nick Cumming-Bruce reports. Read more… In the Philippines for an Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit, President Obama urged China to halt military activities on the disputed islands, Michael D. Shear reports. Read more… The dead, including women and children, were said to have been involved in a knife attack in September that left 50 people dead at a mine near the Kyrgyzstan border, Javier C. Hernández reports. Read more… Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Health   The Weekly Health Quiz. Advertisement Advertisement In the news: dogs, cats and adrenaline junkies. Test your knowledge of this week’s health news. FEB. 20, 2014 Toby Bilanow/The New York Times
Movies   The Making of 'Omar'. A closer look at the Palestinian thriller “Omar,” an Oscar nominee for best foreign language film.          
Science   Better Than a Credit Card. Advertisement Every time we read or hear about older adults victimized by scams on the phone, scams on the street, thefts in senior residences or attacks via the Internet, we wince. And we think: Is there no way to protect aging parents from such predators, short of taking charge of their finances? Law enforcement has trouble keeping up with these fast-moving thieves, who have often moved onto the next scheme by the time the police and regulators have warned about the current one. And warnings won’t help some potential victims anyway: Poor financial decisions often constitute an early warning sign of cognitive loss, researchers have warned. Yet after decades of adequately handling their own money, older people understandably resist ceding control. Can’t we leave them some autonomy — the ability to support a favorite charity or carry some walking-around money or buy a new purse — without the risk that they may impoverish themselves? A thought: The use of prepaid debit cards as a substitute for credit cards and checking accounts has grown enormously in the past few years. A Pew Charitable Trusts survey earlier this month reported that 5 percent of American adults use them at least monthly and that the amount of money loaded onto them — $65 billion in 2012 — has more than doubled over three years. Few card users were over age 65, Pew found — just 5 percent. But maybe more of them could or should be.  Lots of banks, stores and online sources offer prepaid cards, which function much like debit or credit cards but are not linked to bank accounts. You can load and reload them with cash, via direct deposit, or in some cases with transfers or checks deposited at ATMs. People then use them, with either PINs or signatures, to get cash and to shop in person or online. Relying on these cards makes it a lot harder to wipe out an I.R.A. or hand a grifter $10,000. “Prepaid cards can be a useful tool for monitoring and controlling the spending of others,” Christina Tetreault, a staff attorney at Consumers Union, told me. “You can’t spend more money than has been loaded on the card, and that can be very attractive.” In fact, one fledgling company considers older adults such a promising market that it is about to offer a prepaid Visa card, called True Link, specifically intended for seniors. Highly customizable, it will permit the administrator (a trusted family member) to set per-purchase or per-day spending limits or cap A.T.M. withdrawals. It can block charges to individual merchants or charities or whole categories, like magazine subscriptions. You could block only your mother’s phone purchases, for instance. “She can go to the movies, grocery shopping or out to dinner, and the card works like any debit card,” said James Tinsley, director of marketing and communications at True Link. “But if she’s watching late-night television and decides to order four crock pots, the card gets declined.” You could authorize card use at the corner Rite Aid but not the one across town, where she never goes. And you can receive text alerts if someone uses the card to make A.T.M. withdrawals at 2 a.m. Prepaid cards can entail some risks, for seniors or for anyone. Consumer advocates caution that they lack the federally mandated protections that apply to credit and debit cards. The funds loaded on prepaid cards need not be insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, for instance, though many issuers provide F.D.I.C. insurance voluntarily. Some offer the same loss and theft safeguards as debit or credit cards; others don’t. A few allow overdrafts, defeating the whole idea of controlling spending. “I encourage consumers to really read the fine print on these,” said Maggie Flowers, senior program manager at the National Council on Aging. “All of them have different rules and fees.” The fees can mount, too. The best cards — Consumer Reports gives high marks to Bluebird (an American Express/Walmart product) and Green Dot — set low monthly charges that often can be waived, with few other costs. But other cards require fees when you set them up, when you reload or use an A.T.M., even when you don’t use them frequently. “Some are very transparent, and others you have to hunt for the information — and even then it’s not clear,” Ms. Tetreault said.  Consumer Union has published tips for users; so has the National Council on Aging. Clearly, a prepaid card won’t work for every older person confused about money. Perhaps the cardholder can’t remember his PIN or loses the card so regularly it serves little purpose. But large numbers of seniors can use, and misuse, checking accounts and debit and credit cards, which sometimes leads them into trouble. At least a prepaid card could limit their losses — not only from scamsters, but from pushy marketers, overzealous investment counselors or because of their own ill-advised spending. Theoretically, anyway. If you have used a prepaid card to help an older relative maintain independence and solvency, we would like to hear how it has gone in the comments. Paula Span is the author of “When the Time Comes: Families With Aging Parents Share Their Struggles and Solutions.” The blog is ending, but our coverage of caregiving and aging is not. The New Old Age will run as a twice-monthly column by Paula Span on nytimes.com and frequently in Science Times. Read more… At many nursing homes and assisted living places, a resident’s passing may be hardly noted.Read more… Circumstances had changed, and all these documents needed to change, too. Read more… Lifestyle modification prevents Type 2 diabetes even more effectively in the elderly than in middle-aged patients.Read more… Julianne Moore gives a wonderful performance in “Still Alice,” but the film skirts the truth about dementia.Read more… Thanks to the marvels of medical science, our parents are living longer than ever before. Most will spend years dependent on others for the most basic needs. That burden falls to their baby boomer children. The New Old Age blog explored this unprecedented intergenerational challenge. Paula Span will continue to write New Old Age columns twice monthly at nytimes.com/health and the conversation will continue on Twitter (@paula_span) and Facebook. A few medical institutions have opened their doors to patients’ own dogs and cats. Scheduling and medication errors plague patients with Parkinson's. Dementia doesn't respect public stature. Is there life after caregiving, and if so what it is like? Comprehensive reference and special reports about diseases, conditions, tests, injuries and surgeries. Useful information, tools, and links to organizations around the Web. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   Highlights and Analysis: Canada Defeats United States in Men’s Hockey Semifinal. Advertisement Canada defeated the United States, 1-0, in the semifinals of the men’s hockey tournament to advance to the gold medal game. In a rematch of the 2010 gold medal game, Canada dominated play for much of the game, going ahead on a goal by the Dallas Stars’ Jamie Benn early in the second period. American goalie Jonathan Quick kept his team in the game, withstanding a near-constant Canadian barrage to make 36 saves. But the United States, which had been the highest-scoring team in the tournament, could not get the equalizer. Canada will play Sweden in the gold medal game Sunday. Canada and Sweden have won three of the past four gold medals in men’s hockey since N.H.L. players became part of the tournament in 1998, Canada in 2002 and 2010 and Sweden in 2006. Continue reading to see how it all happened in real time. The loss to Canada, which was resounding despite the close score, will bring up some questions about the assembly of the U.S. team. Obviously the team needed scoring — and not just in a shootout — so Bobby Ryan’s absence stands out. But the defense had issues too and they can’t all be traced to Paul Martin’s injury. Aside from Kevin Shattenkirk, there wasn’t another offensive defenseman in the bunch. Was Brooks Orpik really a better choice than Erik Johnson, who was so good in the 2010 Games? Wouldn’t Keith Yandle or Dustin Byfuglien have come in handy when they needed to sustain some offense and score a goal? Just some food for thought as the Americans contemplate what might have been. — LYNN ZINSER It became clear in this game that Canada was a far stronger team than the U.S. and it earned itself a gold medal game against Sweden. That game should be more evenly matched, with Sweden showing defensive strength to rival Canada’s. The U.S. will try for a bronze medal against Finland, which would be a bitter consolation prize, but a prize nonetheless. It will leave with the great memory of the shootout victory over Russia. Canada, though, was a much bigger hurdle to overcome. Perhaps the U.S. men’s and women’s teams should get together for a group cry. — LYNN ZINSER The desperate U.S. rush at the end produced only more desperation. Perhaps fittingly, the clock ran out with the players digging in the corner for the puck. This game was 1-0, but it felt like a blowout by Canada, with the U.S. getting so few chances to make this a game. — LYNN ZINSER For one last push at a tying goal. The U.S. is trying to mount a comeback, but when they get in the offensive zone, Canada’s defensemen and forwards succeed in keeping the play along the boards and the shots from far away. They can manage nothing in the middle and no traffic in front of Price. It’s like there is a force field holding them out. — LYNN ZINSER  This one was on Chris Kunitz, who was alone next to Quick at the left of the goal with the puck on his backhand. Quick slid to stuff the shot in spectacular fashion, keeping this a one-goal game. — LYNN ZINSER Ryan Callahan threw himself in front of a huge slap shot by Drew Doughty, part of a very gutsy and successful penalty kill by the U.S. That bullet dodged, the U.S. has only 7 minutes to figure out how to get a goal of its own. — LYNN ZINSER Kessel is off for hooking and the Canadians get a power play chance. Their offense has looked like it is on a power play even when it isn’t. — LYNN ZINSER such a pleasure to watch Jonathan Quick Play goal — Jim Craig (@JimCraigUSA) 21 Feb 14 On a rush accelerated by Kessel, Parise got a good shot on Price from the slot, but Price has been up for whatever the Americans can throw at him. And he has given up so few rebounds to cut down the U.S. chances. — LYNN ZINSER The U.S. team seems to be chasing everything right now. Its offensive rushes are stymied after one shot and then they are back trailing Canada down the ice. Their kingdom for an extended stretch in the Canadian zone. Plus, Quick could use the rest. — LYNN ZINSER Team USA preliminary-round hero T.J. Oshie hasn’t been much of a factor in this game — but I guess, hey, it’s not the shootout yet — but he just got a shot on Carey Price. Not a great one, but at this point, any shot is a good shot. The U.S. needs a lucky bounce to turn things around. — LYNN ZINSER Forget trying to call anyone in Canada now. http://t.co/YBokwOvUf5 — Rod Gilbert (@rodgilbert7) 21 Feb 14 On paper, the U.S. is playing this game much more evenly. Canada only led in shots in the second period by one, 12-11. Watching the game paints an entirely different picture. Many of the U.S. shots were easy for Carey Price to handle. The Americans are hoping for a late reversal like in 2010, when it took a late goal by Parise to even force overtime in that gold medal game. To do that, they are going to have to find a little more spunk for the spunky underdog role. — LYNN ZINSER Remember that tremendous glove save Jonathan Quick made on Jamie Benn late in the second period? It might turn out to be fairly important, but it was so very Quick-ian, as he came far out of his net to confront Benn, then sprawled on the ice to stop the puck. Quick’s aggressive style can be panic-inducing, but he is the reason the Americans are down only one goal. Since he was a backup goalie for the U.S. team in Vancouver, Quick, 28, has won a Stanley Cup with the Los Angeles Kings and been one of the best goalies in the N.H.L. But this season has been rocky. Quick, who is from Connecticut, struggled at the beginning of the season, then was sidelined from mid-November to the end of December with a groin injury. But in Sochi, his play is reminiscent of his playoff performances for the Kings. — NAILA-JEAN MEYERS Jonathan Quick 0, Canada 1 after 2 periods. — LA Kings (@LAKings) 21 Feb 14 Considering how much steam Canada was gaining in that period, the U.S. should feel lucky to be trailing by only one goal. The momentum of this game clearly shifted as Canada scored and the team’s overall depth and superior defense began to make the going much tougher for the U.S. attack. The American coaches are going to spend this intermission figuring out how to tighten up its own defense — a challenge made stiffer by the absence of Paul Martin — and spring Phil Kessel and Patrick Kane free for more chances. This hockey game could use a bit of the intensity and disdain that the women brought last night. Still feels a bit…polite. — NYT Olympics (@SochiNYT) 21 Feb 14 — LYNN ZINSER The American power play managed three shots, none of them really dangerous, and Canada killed off another penalty. The U.S. offense did stay on the offensive and got a post-power play scrum going in front of the net after a shot by Paul Stastny slid just wide. The longer the U.S. goes without a goal, though, the more doubt creeps in. — LYNN ZINSER Chris Kunitz takes a bad penalty in front of the U.S. net, giving the Americans a chance to get a foothold in this game. Of course, Canada had the first scoring chance on a shorthanded rush. What you miss during TV timeouts: The 12-man cleaning crew. Some scrape, some shovel, some wash windows. Then gone. Poof. — NYT Olympics (@SochiNYT) 21 Feb 14 — LYNN ZINSER Canada’s defenseman haven’t made any flashy plays, but they are by and large keeping the play in front of them and supporting every rush. The latest scoring chance produced out of this came from Benn, and Quick had to sprawl to keep the puck out of the American net. — LYNN ZINSER The U.S. got another scoring rush from Kane (who did so by wheeling around his Chicago teammate Jonathan Toews), but then it immediately turned into another burst of offense by Canada, who unfurled a handful of shots on Quick. The U.S. defenseman are spending a lot of time on their heels, getting the worst of these matchups. It’ll be a something of a miracle if the US gets out of this period allowing only one goal. — Naila-Jean Meyers (@NailaJeanMeyers) 21 Feb 14 — LYNN ZINSER Jamie Benn, the goal scorer for Canada, was not on the preliminary roster released by Team Canada this summer. He considered it something of a snub, but he played his way on to the national team. He has 22 goals and 29 assists in 58 games for the Dallas Stars. Benn, a 24-year-old from British Columbia, is only 12 points short of his career high already. This was his second goal of the tournament, joining Jeff Carter as the only Canadian forwards with more than one goal. — NAILA-JEAN The U.S. power play kept possession this time, which made it more dangerous, but mostly stood around in the Canadian zone, which did not make for many dynamic scoring chances. Patrick Kane let go of one blast that created the proper chaos in front of the net, but aside from that, there was not much happening. Chalk that up as another mini-victory for Canada. — LYNN ZINSER Ryan Getzlaf is called for high sticking and the U.S. gets a chance at a power play. It didn’t get a single shot on the last one, though, so they are already ahead of the game with a quick one here. A goal, however, would be better for them. — LYNN ZINSER Benn’s deflection, with Corey Perry screening Quick, was just what the Canadian doctor ordered. That gave them a jolt of confidence and you can see Quick’s shoulders slump. Let’s see if the confidence swing changes the way this game is played. A little life in the arena. U-S-A chants get drowned out by CAN-A-DA chant. Dissolves into usual chaos. PA system takes over. — NYT Olympics (@SochiNYT) 21 Feb 14 — LYNN ZINSER Jamie Benn, relatively quiet up until now, had the perfectly timed deflection of a shot by defenseman Jay Bouwmeester to redirect the puck past Jonathan Quick for a 1-0 lead for Canada. — LYNN ZINSER Patrice Bergeron led the Canadians with four shots on goal in the first period. Patrick Sharp had three. Zach Parise led the Americans with four shots. — LYNN ZINSER Just because this game is 0-0 doesn’t mean it has been dull. The fast pace was just as expected, with long passes stretching the ice and the speediest players creating the most havoc. Canada had the edge in shots, 16-11, and the teams traded stretches of dominating the puck. U.S. goalie Jonathan Quick made the more spectacular saves, although Price stood tall when he needed to, keeping the U.S. off the board when it was grabbing the momentum early. — LYNN ZINSER After one early scoring chance, this power play went south quickly for the U.S. It iced the puck, which was ridiculous, and then Canada got control and managed a scoring chance of its own shorthanded. The U.S. wasn’t able to set up in the offensive zone again and the power play time dwindled down to nothing. The U.S. defensemen were not strong keeping the puck in at the blue line. — LYNN ZINSER The U.S. gets its first power play when San Jose Sharks teammates Patrick Marleau and Joe Pavelski collided. It’s interference on Canada’s Marleau. Two minutes of power play for the Americans. — LYNN ZINSER Canada used that power play to turn the action its way, and Quick has had to fend off a flurry of scoring chances here. His side to side quickness really coming in handy here, especially on rebounds. Quick has not been playing his best this N.H.L. season, but he has looked sharp in the Olympics. — LYNN ZINSER Defenseman Ryan Suter, just out of the penalty box, is by far the American leader in ice time. Coming into the game, he had been on the ice more than 10 minutes longer than the next highest American, Ryan McDonagh. He also leads the N.H.L. in ice time at 29:49 per game, more than two minutes more than the next player on the list. (And because we can’t write about the U.S. team without talking about the Miracle on Ice, Suter’s dad, Bob, was a defenseman on the 1980 American team.) — NAILA-JEAN MEYERS Quick gave up a big rebound and had to slide across his crease to make a second save to keep this game scoreless. The U.S. survived that first test. — LYNN ZINSER Canada gets the first power play, having turned a U.S. scoring chance into a rush of its own led by Jeff Carter. U.S. defenseman Ryan Suter reached out to stop him, so now the first power play. — LYNN ZINSER The U.S. has had by far the better jump here, which is good if you’re rooting for the south-of-the-border guys, but if they don’t turn it into a goal, it starts to become an advantage for Canada. If Canada weathers what feels like a storm, it gains confidence that it can take the best the U.S. can throw its way. — LYNN ZINSER The U.S. has dominated this stretch, using puck possession to keep Canada bottled in its zone. Its shots, though, are coming from defensemen with a lot of bodies to get through. Traffic in front of the net is good, but it can also make for a lot of off-target deflections too. — LYNN ZINSER Another Kessel rush gets the Americans surging into the Canada zone and John Carlson unleashes one of his big shots for the best U.S. scoring chance yet. But Price stops it. — LYNN ZINSER If you keep score of such things, the St. Louis Blues are the most represented team on the ice, with 3 Americans and 2 Canadians. — NAILA-JEAN MEYERS As Jeff Carter springs a rush by using his speed to surge up the middle of the ice, it’s another reminder — as if we needed one — that the big ice puts an even bigger premium on speed. Defense turns into offense quickly in Olympic games, with quick passes turning into breakaways and odd-man rushes. This is where Canada has the edge on defense, because it’s defensemen are — overall — faster skaters. — LYNN ZINSER U.S. goalie Jonathan Quick faced his first shots, and held tough, but he had a lot of company on the ice from his Los Angeles Kings teammates. American teammate Dustin Brown was on the ice and the second shot came from defenseman Drew Doughty. — LYNN ZINSER The U.S. team gets the first shot of the game with Phil Kessel streaking toward the goal after getting past Duncan Keith, and Carey Price was up to the task. Expect the speediest players, Kessel included, to push the pace here. — LYNN ZINSER On the American side, the forward mysteriously missing from the goal scoring column in Patrick Kane of the Chicago Blackhawks. But he has had several great chances and is distributing the puck brilliantly, collecting four assists. Kane, who is fifth in the N.H.L. in points with 63, will be facing three Chicago teammates today: forwards Jonathan Toews and Patrick Sharp and defenseman Duncan Keith — NAILA-JEAN MEYERS Hockey reporters in the arena have reported spotting Russian forward Alex Ovechkin in the stands to watch this game. A late-arriving crowd for hockey. About half full. Pessimists might say half empty, but pretty sure it’ll fill up in the next 4 minutes. — NYT Olympics (@SochiNYT) 21 Feb 14 — LYNN ZINSER Some possibly relevant statistics. Sidney Crosby does not yet have a goal in the Olympics as Mike Babcock has struggled to find the right linemates for him. Canada’s offense has, in fact, been carried by its defense, which has scored 7 of its 13 goals. Drew Doughty has 4 goals and Shea Weber 3. But Crosby was relatively quiet in elimination games in Vancouver too and ended up scoring the biggest goal of all: the game-winner in overtime in the gold medal game against the United States. “I’m playing and reacting, trusting that it’s going to go in, and sometimes it feels like it’s not going in very easily,” Crosby said this week. “But usually it takes one, and they all start going in.” — NAILA-JEAN MEYERS Expect a much more freewheeling, hard-hitting game between the U.S. and Canada than you saw in the first semifinal between Sweden and Finland. It’s not that those two rivals took it easy on each other, but their strengths are a more tactical game and they each played to their personalities, trying to use their speed in bursts and otherwise control the puck. The U.S. and Canada favor a more N.H.L.-style game, and add in the fact that they just don’t like each other. They will hit and skate and take a lot of chances. Should be fun to watch. — LYNN ZINSER It is, in fact, a hand injury that is keeping Paul Martin out of the lineup, not an illness. It’s another disappointing injury for Martin. He missed several weeks of the N.H.L. season with a broken leg, jeopardizing his spot on the Olympic team. He also missed the Vancouver Olympics in 2010 when a broken arm didn’t heal in time. — NAILA-JEAN MEYERS This semifinal, like the first one, pits neighboring countries that know each other well and have developed a sporting distaste for each other, and NBC is anticipating a large audience, including for its live Internet stream. That loss in the gold medal game at the Vancouver Games has rankled the American players for four years. These Olympics, however, have afforded them a fresh start. In Sochi, the United States team grabbed attention with its shootout victory over Russia in the preliminary round, but that was its only close game. It has outscored four opponents, 20-6. The team received a dose of bad news Friday morning. Defenseman Paul Martin is ill and will not be able to play. Canada’s bad news came Thursday, with forward John Tavares tearing an anterior cruciate ligament, which will also end his N.H.L. season with the Islanders. Canada has played much closer games in this tournament, needing a late goal to beat Latvia in the quarterfinals. It has outscored its four opponents, 13-3. — LYNN ZINSER With defenseman Paul Martin out of the lineup (either because of illness or injury), the spotlight will fall on John Carlson. He will move up in the lineup to play with Martin’s partner and Penguins teammate Brooks Orpik. Carlson, 24, scored the first goal of the Olympics for the American team in its 7-1 victory over Slovakia. He added an assist and has a plus-2 rating for the tournament. But his playing time has been erratic because he has been the team’s seventh defenseman for the past three games. Carlson played less than four minutes against Russia, when American Coach Dan Bylsma relied heavily on his top defensive pairing of Ryan Suter and Ryan McDonagh. Carlson also had the least ice time among defensemen against the Czech Republic in the quarterfinals. A first-time Olympian, Carlson grew up in New Jersey and plays for the Washington Capitals. He has 10 goals and 13 assists this season, his fourth full season in the N.H.L. He was a first-round draft pick by Washington, the 27th pick over all, in 2008. When the team was selected in January, General Manager David Poile said of Carlson, “This year his game has transitioned from somewhat of a defensive defenseman to a two-way defenseman.” Martin’s absence will also put Justin Faulk of the Carolina Hurricanes, the youngest player on the U.S. roster at 21, in the lineup for the first time. — NAILA-JEAN MEYERS Roof of the Ice Dome, here we go: http://t.co/xFA3ik7hIg — Dan Wetzel (@DanWetzel) 21 Feb 14 Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Travel   A Celebration of Sandhill Cranes in Nebraska. Advertisement From February to April, more than half a million sandhill cranes and millions of waterfowl will make their way to central Nebraska as a part of their yearly migration north. Beginning the first week of March, Audubon Nebraska’s Rowe Sanctuary will open viewing blinds in several locations along the Platte River, where enthusiasts can view the birds in their natural habitat. The cranes roost on the river’s sandbars and gorge themselves in surrounding fields in preparation for flights to nesting grounds as far away as Siberia. “It’s pretty fascinating, because they seldom hold still,” said Chris Thody, coordinator for Audubon’s Nebraska Crane Festival in Kearney, Neb. “And the noise they make is awe-inspiring. Imagine tens of thousands of cranes trilling; it’s an incredible sound.” In addition, starting March 20, when the concentration of birds peaks, the festival will offer three days of special events, including field trips, workshops, and guest speakers. Registration costs $125, and a portion of the proceeds will be used to preserve sandhill crane habitat. “The preservation of habitat is the utmost reason for this festival,” Ms. Thody said. “Sandhill cranes are one of the oldest bird species, and they have been coming to Nebraska since before the Platte River existed, but preserving this land for them also helps a plethora of other endangered and threatened species, like whooping cranes, interior least terns and piping plovers.” Those who can’t make the festival can still observe the cranes from their homes, using the online CraneCam. A version of this article appears in print on 02/23/2014, on page TR3 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Bird-Watching: Cranes Come Back to Nebraska. In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
U.S.   Disclosure Statement for the City of Detroit. Advertisement Advertisement This is a detailed description of how Detroit intends to repay its creditors and how it aims to restore the city to health, including by lowering police-response time, restoring streetlights and renewing blighted neighborhoods. FEB. 21, 2014 Related Article City of Detroit
Business   Opening the Corporation. Advertisement   In particular, the information-sharing habits of open source software seem to be becoming a standard in other parts of business. Much the way the Linux operating system came to dominate computer servers, and the Apache web server became critical to the Internet, companies seem to be discovering that they can move faster and create more change by exposing things that once stayed secret to a larger population. Soon they may even share information among competitors. Tidemark, a company that makes cloud-based software for looking at a company’s financial performance, says it now sees lots of data being shared across companies, and may soon build services for cross-company sharing. “Even sharing between departments, like finance and human resources showing data, is a cultural change,” said Christian Gheorghe, Tidemark’s founder and chief executive. “Like open source, one person might be able to make a fix, but there is a collective power in collaborating and knowing the group history.” In a product release this April, Mr. Gheorghe plans to incorporate the ability for a company to anonymously share information with others in its industry like how long it takes to hire a new employee. The idea is to build open industry benchmarks, against which people can measure their company, over time possibly improving the overall average. Another company, Skyhigh Networks, this week released what it hopes will be a standard method of scoring whether a mobile application is safe to use in a corporate setting. Of 5,000 cloud services Skyhigh examined, about 9 percent were seen as risky. Instead of objecting or protesting, all the companies among that 9 percent sought to meet the common standard. “Benchmarking among providers is a kind of low-hanging fruit” for information management in the cloud, said Rajiv Gupta, Skyhigh’s co-founder and chief executive. “Banks are already sharing all their threat information on cybercrime. People will want to know how they compare and how they can improve on all sorts of things.” Tech companies in particular – but what companies aren’t tech-influenced at this point? – are eager to make data move faster, including information on how workers are trained. Slack, a communications service, recently announced a real-time product for businesses that works something like a chat service, but also allows formation of groups and document sharing. The real service, however, may be the product’s effect on awareness, by opening up information. “When we hire a person, we tell them, ‘Read the last two weeks of communication,’” said Stewart Butterfield, Slack’s founder. “They don’t just see communications, they see who is good at answering which questions, and how people talk with each other. You triangulate how the company actually functions.” Considering how much effort companies spend on building corporate culture, that is no small thing. But should everything be shared? “You can create a private group for discussions about things like hiring or pay, but we encourage putting out as much information as possible,” Mr. Butterfield said. “Even if you know the official structure of a company, you don’t really know how things get done.” There are many other companies that have grown up in cloud businesses, which have a more open approach to information sharing. GitHub, a popular method of writing software, envisions a day when legal documents and other work is shared within companies and possibly externally. Asana, which was co-founded by one of the founders of Facebook, thinks its project management software could save the world 5 percent of its effort on pretty much everything. If that sounds presumptuous, so be it. So did taking apart the computer industry by having everyone work for free. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   1964: U.S. TV Corps Grapples with Cops, Alps and Lingo. Advertisement   A technician working for the American Broadcasting Co. here was pinched yesterday when he tried to drive past one of the barriers the police seem to enjoy putting up around town. He pleaded innocence and ignorance for several minutes, but the Austrian gendarme took him by the arm and started to drag him off to the sneezer. In a desperation move, the technician grabbed his transistor walkie-talkie and screamed into the mouthpiece: “Mayday-Mayday! They’re taking me to jail…” Besides the cops, ABC has had to contend with the Alps, which are steep, plane schedules, which are erratic, and the Innsbruck telephone system, which is rustic. Prodigious Task Camera men are not notably agile types to begin with, and clambering up the Alps with their cumbersome equipment would be a challenge for Sir Edmund Hillary. Their task is prodigious. With a crew of 110, more than half European, they are taping every event in this barrel-slave carnival for a total of 17 and a half hours of prime-time broadcasting in the U.S. To do the job they are equipped with 50 cameras, staffs from half a dozen European television networks, five helicopters, several mobile units, innumerable rented cars and station wagons and $1,500,000. It is not all for the greater glory of snow. The sponsors also hope they will peddle a great deal of beer, cigarettes, automobile tires, insurance and hand lotion. Because It’s There The logistics of the Olympics here are difficult for the spectators, but the problem is multiplied for the television men. Camera men are not notably agile types to begin with, and clambering up the Alps with their cumbersome equipment would be a challenge for Sir Edmund Hillary. The helicopters have done much of the work by depositing cameras and paraphernalia on the mountaintops. Roone Arledge, the commander-in-chief of the ABC adventure, got some notion of the trouble that was ahead of him when he first sat down with the head of the organizing committee almost a year ago. Before he began to list the networks’ needs to the chairman, Prof. Friedl Wolfgang, Arledge asked the Austrian if he would like an interpreter. The professor declined, insisting that his English was up to the chore of listing the technical requirements for televising the games. When they had finished, the professor assured Arledge he had understood every word and said: “But the hour grows late and the time has come for me to say hello.” — New York Herald Tribune, Feb. 1, 1964.  This blog will share highlights and curiosities from The International Herald Tribune's storied reportage. While we will share coverage of historic events — the world wars, the women's suffrage movement, the great expeditions — we will also republish glimpses of less earth-shaking moments and the ephemera of daily life. The same stories that caught the eyes of our generations of editors now offer us insight into the lives and interests of generations of Trib readers. Read more » From the International Herald Tribune archives: The Vichy government limits menus in 1941.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: A Nigerian officer at war sends a dispatch in 1916. Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: Germany establishes a naval repair shop 500 miles from South America in 1941.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: Prince Victor Napoleon gives a treatise on French politics in 1891.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: British troops attack Irak forces in 1941.Read more… Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   Serena Williams Ousted. Advertisement Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSFEB. 22, 2014 Alize Cornet, a Frenchwoman ranked 26th, ended the hopes for an all-Williams final at the Dubai Championships with her first victory over a No. 1 player, a 6-4, 6-4 upset of Serena Williams in the semifinals. Venus Williams made the final by beating Caroline Wozniacki, 6-3, 6-2. A version of this brief appears in print on February 22, 2014, on page D8 of the New York edition with the headline: Serena Williams Ousted. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Travel   Chicken Soup for Flu-Weary Guests. Advertisement With flu season at its peak in the United States, some hotels, especially in New York City, are trying to help guests ward off the illness or at least make it easier to manage. The Kitano in Midtown Manhattan has a new immune-system-boosting menu with ingredients like ginger and plum paste in dishes like steamed egg custard with crab meat. The Hotel Chandler in the Murray Hill neighborhood has a “Flu Away” package through the end of March — a room with a pamphlet that has tips on staying healthy and a Vicks GermFree humidifier. Prices start at $250 a night. At the Towers of the Waldorf-Astoria, guests are appointed a concierge who can go pharmacy shopping and deliver flu-fighting teas to the room. At the Chatwal, guests can get beet-green apple celery flu-fighting juice through room service and also request flu shots in the rooms from a nearby pharmacist or doctor. House calls start at $300. The Sanctuary in Kiawah Island, S.C., offers a eucalyptus-scented steam room and heated wraps to help with achy muscles in its spa, and also chicken soup that can be sent to the room. The Windsor Court Hotel in New Orleans has a tea with raw honey, cayenne, turmeric, fresh ginger and cinnamon. Hotels offer these items to gain an edge during extreme outdoor temperatures, said Scott Berman, a principal and industry leader in hospitality and leisure at PricewaterhouseCoopers. “The country is having a harsh winter, and when that happens, room occupancy goes down so properties will do anything they can to bring in guests,” he said. A version of this article appears in print on 02/23/2014, on page TR3 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Chicken Soup for Flu-Weary Guests. In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Business   New Version of Two-Faced YotaPhone to Have Larger Screens and More Power. Advertisement   The first dual-screen YotaPhone made a splash when it was revealed at the CES trade event in early 2013, winning compliments and awards. It went on sale in several European countries in December for a price equivalent to $675, and for $600 in Russia. The next generation YotaPhone builds on the ideas of the first edition, in a thinner unibody shape with curved edges. It also has some better internal specifications, like a quad core processor and a 2 megapixel front-facing webcam. But its biggest new feature is that the rear electronic paper display has capacitative touch sensing built in, which means it’s also a touchscreen. An annual event that showcases the latest devices, accessories and trends in the mobile industry. While the color touchscreen on the front side is great for running typical Android phone applications and making calls, the new touch sensitive electronic paper display turns the YotaPhone into something that could rival devices like Amazon’s Kindle e-readers. Electronic paper screens are often said to be favored by consumers who read e-books because they look more like printed paper and ink text. Yota Devices points out that this display also makes the new phone suitable for slow-paced games like chess, sudoku or even for crossword puzzles. The company is releasing a software development package so that developers can write applications that make the most of both the phone’s displays, including tricks like showing always-on health and fitness alerts or calendar notifications on the electronic paper screen. Yota is promoting the phone on the strength of the device’s unusual layout, pointing out that about 74 percent of the YotaPhone is useable screen versus the 30 percent to 40 percent of a typical smartphone. When the new device’s battery is running low, it’s also possible to use a “Smart Power” mode. This turns off the power-hungry color display and instead offers basic phone calling, messaging, email access and more via the rear electronic paper display. This is possible because this type of screen can consume less electrical energy than the color screens typically used on smartphones and tablets. The next generation YotaPhone has a 5-inch, 1920-by-1080-pixel OLED screen on the front which is larger than the iPhone 5S’s screen and rivals the display on leading Android phones like Samsung’s Galaxy S4. The electronic paper screen is 4.7 inches in size and has 960 by 540 pixel resolution. This means both of the phone’s displays are bigger in size and higher in resolutionthan the screens used on the first YotaPhone. The chief executive of Yota Devices, Vladislav Martynov, confirmed during an interview that the new phone would go on sale for the same or slightly less than the cost of typical premium Android phones. This is the same strategy as used for pricing the first-generation YotaPhone, which will go on sale across more markets in Europe, the Middle East and CIS countries soon. The new device is expected to become available later in 2014. Both YotaPhone devices will face fierce competition from Apple, Microsoft and Android smartphone makers like Samsung and HTC. These last two companies are expected to reveal a range of new devices at the MWC show this week, some of which will offer more features than YotaPhone. Apple is expected to release its next generation iPhone later in the year. And Microsoft is expected to produce more Windows phones after taking over Nokia’s smartphone business. Mr. Martynov isn’t fazed however, suggesting that “So far there are no real direct competitors,” to his phone, “because no one offers a second always-on display.” Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   Old Railroad Stirs Memories of a Pre-Industrial China. Advertisement   My father rode the Xinning Railway once. He was 4 years old and traveling from Hong Kong with his parents and older brother to their ancestral village in Guangdong Province. It was 1936, in a China without six-lane highways and gleaming airports. They were returning to the countryside to build a new family home. They took a steamboat from Hong Kong to the riverside city of Jiangmen. The ship docked by a customs depot run by officials of the Kuomintang government. The family was carrying a red blanket to give to their grandmother in the village. The officials asked them to pay a tax on the new blanket. They walked to the Beijie train station. The ride to Songlang, the station town closest to their home village, took several hours. Without the train, the journey would have taken one or more days. The idea to write an article on the now-vanished Xinning Railway came to me after hearing stories from my father and his older brother, Sam Wong. The railroad cut through the heart of the lush Taishan region of Guangdong, the point of origin for many overseas Chinese. A private railroad, it had been built as a modernizing project for the region by Chen Yixi, a Chinese immigrant to the United States who had lived for years in Seattle and made a fortune as a labor contractor on railway projects in the American West. Few people these days have first-hand memories of the Xinning Railway, though there are a couple of statues of Mr. Chen in Taishan. “I was just 4 years old,” said my father, who is now 81. “I only remember one thing.” That was the red blanket. My uncle, 85, has other memories. A few years ago, he self-published a memoir about growing up in Hong Kong and China and immigrating to the United States. He devoted six pages to the railway. He wrote about the trip to the home village, Hop Wo, that the family took together in April 1936. He returned to Hong Kong two years later along the same route, but by then officials had suspended regular train operations because of the war with Japan. Instead, what he called a “railroad automobile” was running — just two small cars with no locomotive. The engine was in the front of the first car. Later, after he moved back to the Taishan area, he spent a year of high school in classrooms that were in the railway headquarters. That was from autumn 1943 to June 1944, when the war was still raging. The headquarters was in Taishan City, not far from the village, and next to the West Gate train station. “We used the station concrete platform and nearby grounds for military drills and physical education classes,” my uncle wrote. By then, Kuomintang officials had ordered the railroad dismantled so the Japanese occupiers would not be able to use it. My uncle recalled that from 1942 to 1945 he walked along the abandoned railroad bed between Taishan City and Songlang many times, usually to return to the home village on weekends. It took him about an hour to walk the three and a half miles, or 5.6 kilometers, through the green countryside. “That section had many deep holes, to deter any possible Japanese military vehicle traffic, bordered by a narrow path for walking,” he wrote. When I went to Taishan in January to research the history of the railway, I collaborated with Alan Chin, a photographer with whom I had worked in Iraq and China. Alan was at the end of a one-month research trip in Taishan for a book project. His parents are from Taishan, and he has long had an interest in the region. We drove around and visited a few remnants of the railroad, most notably the Beijie station, where my father and his family had boarded the train for the first time. We also stopped in Songlang, the station town by my ancestral village. It was little more than a cluster of homes and shops flanking a short, paved stretch of road. The most vibrant sign of life came from a three-story elementary school, from which we could hear children’s voices. Across the road was a stretch of abandoned buildings. One had a sign that indicated that the building had been the headquarters of the People’s Mediation Committee, a local Communist Party organization. Next door was a two-story building erected in the early 20th century that had belonged to a Kuomintang official, said a man walking around the front yard of his home, which was littered with rusty junk. The man pointed to an empty spot at one end of the line of derelict buildings – the Songlang train station had once stood there, he said. On our visit to the Beijie station in Jiangmen, Alan and I were accompanied by two journalists from the Jiangmen Daily newspaper, which had recently published stories on the Xinning Railway. We had contacted one reporter, Zhou Huadong, to ask him about the railroad. His colleague, Tan Yueshao, then interviewed us about our own assignment. Both of them seemed struck by the fact that our parents had personal memories of the railroad. The newspaper ran the story by Ms. Tan on its front page, with a photograph taken by Mr. Zhou of me and Alan outside the Beijie station. Alan told me later that his father had talked about the train while Alan was growing up in New York. “For him, it was always combined with the great loss of it, that it was never rebuilt,” Alan said. When the two of them returned to their ancestral village of Sam Hop together in 1989, Alan’s father pointed out that the dirt road on which their minibus was traveling was the old railroad bed. “He said, ‘That’s where the old rail yard used to be. That’s where the old station used to be. That’s where the Japanese bombed the railroad’,” Alan said. “He would point at these spots where you could see nothing.” A quarter-century onward, there is still nothing much to see, except for weeds and earth and shadows. Sinosphere, the China blog of The New York Times, delivers intimate, authoritative coverage of the planet's most populous nation and its relationship with the rest of the world. Drawing on timely, engaging dispatches from The Times’ distinguished team of China correspondents, this blog brings readers into the debates and discussions taking place inside a fast-changing country and details the cultural, economic and political developments shaping the lives of 1.3 billion people. Some called on the government to send troops to the Middle East in retaliation to an Islamic State killing, while others cautioned that such a move could invite terrorism at home.Read more… The dissidents had won official recognition as refugees and had been previously detained in China for their activism, Chris Buckley reports.Read more… Human rights advocates listened with a mixture of incredulity and derision to the delegation’s responses on interrogation, Nick Cumming-Bruce reports. Read more… In the Philippines for an Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit, President Obama urged China to halt military activities on the disputed islands, Michael D. Shear reports. Read more… The dead, including women and children, were said to have been involved in a knife attack in September that left 50 people dead at a mine near the Kyrgyzstan border, Javier C. Hernández reports. Read more… Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Society   He Won Her Vote. Advertisement Advertisement By VINCENT M. MALLOZZIFEB. 23, 2014 Amy Cecilia Salomone and Nicholas Justin Thornton were married Saturday by the Rev. Emmanuel Taylor at St. Dominic’s Catholic Church in San Francisco. The bride, 30, is a San Francisco-based fund-raiser for the House Majority PAC, a political action committee in Washington, working to elect Democrats to the House of Representatives. She graduated from Michigan State University. She is the daughter of Karen M. Salomone and Judge Geno D. Salomone, who live and work in Taylor, Mich. The bride’s father sits on Michigan’s 23rd District Court. Her mother is the executive director of Fish and Loaves, a community food pantry. The groom, 31, is a clinical intern at the Edgewood Center for Children and Families in San Carlos, Calif. He graduated from Seattle University and received a master’s degree in marriage and family therapy from Santa Clara University. He is the son of LeAnn Thornton and Gary D. Thornton, both of South San Francisco. The groom’s mother is the executive assistant in the police department in Hillsborough, Calif. His father retired as a police officer from the South San Francisco Police Department. Advertisement The couple met in May 2006, in Rocky Hill, Conn., while working at the campaign headquarters of Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut, who faced a tough challenge in the Democratic Party primary. Ms. Salomone and Mr. Thornton worked together for a week before they were dispatched to different offices, she to New London, Conn., and he to New Haven. But nothing clicked during those first few days together. “I was just out of college and really wasn’t paying too much attention to him,” she said. A month later, he joined the New London office as its supervisor and began working long hours side by side with her. “The environment became very stressful, and I’m the type of person who stresses out a lot,” Ms. Salomone said. “Nicholas helped keep me calm with his humor and quiet demeanor, and I admired his great work ethic.” Mr. Thornton discussed his ideas with Ms. Salomone, often over coffee, and began to appreciate her more with each stressful day. “Campaigns are pretty hectic, but she was someone I could always lean on for support,” he said. “She also happened to be the sweetest person I ever met.” On Aug. 2, with the primary less than a week away, they were walking together after another long evening at work. The prospect of a Democratic primary loss had set him to worrying — and not just for Mr. Lieberman’s sake. Mr. Thornton figured a defeat might also cut short his time with Ms. Salomone. So he made an executive decision. “I just blurted out, ‘Can I kiss you?’ ” he said. She said yes. A week later, Mr. Lieberman lost the primary, but soon chose to run as a third-party candidate, which allowed the couple to continue working together (and also won the senator re-election). “It worked out well for all of us,” Mr. Thornton said. “But for me, Amy was by far the best thing to come out of that campaign.” VINCENT M. MALLOZZI A version of this article appears in print on February 23, 2014, on page ST19 of the New York edition with the headline: He Won Her Vote. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Sports   Sochi Olympics Closing Ceremony Latest Updates. Advertisement Russia had so much to prove at the Winter Games. That spending however-many-billion dollars to build an Olympics-industrial complex from scratch on the edge of the Black Sea was worth it. That despite a thicket of security worries, logistical obstacles, weather annoyances and the darkening specter of revolution in nearby Ukraine, the country could put on a Games that ran seamlessly, at times even exuberantly. Its closing ceremony on Sunday night was advertised as a celebration of Russian culture and heritage – a grand party to show off the work of distinguished Russian musicians, dancers, artists and authors through the centuries. But it seemed as much a great sigh of happy relief as anything else. In keeping with these things, the ceremony was often loud, sometimes elegant, sometimes flashy, sometimes bewildering. It opened with an excerpt from Mussorgsky’s lovely “Pictures at an Exhibition”; featured a children’s choir drawn from all over Russia; starred a giddy crowd of post-competition Olympic athletes from various countries rushing in all at once; and hustled people on and offstage so rapidly that it was sometimes hard to catch why they had been there at all. There were references to Kandinsky and to Chagall. There was music by Rachmaninoff, Rubinstein, and Vladimir Horowitz. Dancers from the Bolshoi and the Mariinksy performed in a segment that told a story starring a passel of Ballet Russes characters and its founder, Sergei Diaghilev. Huge banners depicting some of Russia’s greatest authors – Tolstoy, Gogol, Dostoyevsky, even, interestingly, the dissident writer Solzhenitsyn – were displayed, as people ran around waving books in the air. There were clowns and flying brides, a whole lot of pianos and, of course, the Olympic mascots.  A ship is flying out on stage, and a couple thousand more children have jogged out. All holding yellow … shrubs? The yellow petals are like confetti. The children and a woman on the ship are singing about the hospitality of Sochi: Thank you Sochi, a Russian translator explains. A bit more waving from the big bears, the children scurry off, cue the fireworks outside, which we obviously can’t see. And … scene. Place is a bit of a mess. Someone is going to be sweeping yellow petals out of here for a long time. Maybe a few will be around for the World Cup in 2018. Lights are coming up. Overhead we can hear an astounding cacophony of fireworks, which sure looks cool on the TV monitors in here. Time to scoot. Do svidaniya, Sochi! — DAVID SEGAL   This is the incredibly tedious portion of the night, the speeches of the elderly men. It’s like that part of the Grammys when the president of some recording organization comes out and goes on about the greatness of that recording organization. Good time to get a snack. Would take advantage of that opportunity, but again, the chow at the concession stand here is nearly inedible. Mary Pilon reminds us that Pyeongchang beat out Annecy, France, and Munich, Germany, to host the 2018 Games. Clearly, residents of those cities are looking at these cute glowing snowmen and wondering what could have been. — DAVID SEGAL  Pyeongchang now gets exactly 8 minutes 10 seconds to give us a taste of South Korean culture. And it’s a more minimalist approach than the circuses and giant Gogols we’ve been seeing. An old man plays on a gayageum, a 12-string zither, and some dancers dressed as white birds flap to traditional Korean music. It’s gentle and evocative and will no doubt be a lot better than the next item on the program: 6 minutes 45 seconds of “Speeches.” the south koreans are pushing what appear to be giant ping pong balls around the stage. — Sarah Lyall (@sarahlyall) 23 Feb 14 — VICTOR MATHER  We stood for the Russian anthem at the start. Then the Norwegian and Russian anthems for the cross-country medal ceremonies. Now we stand for the anthem of Greece (birthplace of the Games). And we’re told to remain standing for the Olympic anthem. Really? Now the Olympic flag is handed from the mayor of Sochi to the mayor of Pyeongchang, host of the 2018 Winter Games. And it’s back on our feet again for the South Korean anthem. — VICTOR MATHER   Another of the arts for which Russia is known is circuses, and we have an enormous one spread on the arena floor for the next six minutes. More than 400 clowns, acrobats, jugglers and contortionists do their thing as a giant tent is erected. The music is Shostakovich’s “Suite for Variety Orchestra, Waltz No. 2,” which the program points out was used in “Eyes Wide Shut.” Which of course raises the question: Which is creepier “Eyes Wide Shut,” or clowns? Mary Pilon, who has been down at the coastal cluster for much of the last two weeks, gives us a little contextual analysis of the circus segment. “Clowns have maintained a heavy presence in the Olympic Park these couple of weeks: big clowns, short clowns, rabbit clowns, mimes, etc. They’ve been a big hit among fans roaming the grounds. I’d even go so far to say this has been the best-ever Olympics for the clown population.” — VICTOR MATHER   Got to love a country that gives its greatest novelists the celebrity treatment. In the United States, you need a movie franchise to get that kind of applause and attention. Among the authors: Vladimir Nabokov, who fled Russia. And Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn, who was most famous for writing about Stalin’s gulags. — DAVID SEGAL  We haven’t covered literature yet, have we? It’s time for a host of performers to act as characters from great Russian works like “War and Peace,” “Eugene Onegin,” and “Three Sisters.” Enormous pictures of Gogol, Tolstoy, Dostoyevsky and others rise and receive an unaccountably loud cheer. It’s a well-read audience, clearly. There are also numerous performers dressed as librarians, bringing to mind the tribute to doctors and nurses at London’s opening ceremony. David Segal mentions that, “A chandelier has descended from the ceiling that is described as ‘elaborate’ in the program. That really understates it. That surely is earth’s biggest chandelier. It’s like being in a Liberace dream, looking at that thing.” One last warning: Clowns ahead. Clowns ahead! — VICTOR MATHER  Just as happened during the opening ceremony, the temperature here at the stadium is dropping by the minute. I’ve heard about comedy and talk shows that keep the audience chilled, but an Olympic ceremony? Not like any of us is at risk of getting drowsy. The music here is amped up to rock concert levels. The spectacle alone will keep us wide-eyed. Maybe they just ran out of money when the heating-the-stadium budget came in. — DAVID SEGAL  What could be better than a performance of Rachmaninoff’s Piano Concerto No. 2? How about a performance of Rachmaninoff’s Piano Concerto No. 2 as 62 other pianos are frantically rolled around the arena by men in Mozart wigs? From music, we move on to ballet. Those two archrival ballet companies, the Bolshoi and Mariinsky (Kirov), join together in the Olympic spirit of friendship to perform a tribute to great Russian dance figures, including Pavlova and Diaghilev. Each troupe gets its own proscenium arch in its signature colors, red and gold (Bolshoi) and blue and gold (Mariinsky). — VICTOR MATHER  A tribute to Russian artists now, with a cast of 120 that our program says includes 10 brides suspended from clouds and 41 stilt walkers and jumpers. It’s a living enactment of a painting by Marc Chagall. The highlight is the upside-down house, which is lifted from one of his paintings. Or maybe it’s a composite. Whatever it is, it looks pretty amazing. Program says that Chagall painted a “fantasy world reflecting an alternate reality of happiness and new horizons.” Well, he also painted the shtetls, which were real places. Nonetheless, this is an artist who was all but invisible during the era of the Soviet Union. Guy was Jewish and he was an emigre, two strikes against, back in the day. Let’s consider him back in the embrace of his motherland. It’s Rachmaninoff. And “Piano Concert No. 2.” Been a while since this has been heard without a figure skater around. Waiting for one of these pianos to do a triple lutz, then fall down. It could happen. — DAVID SEGAL   Athletes in the rear of this massive parade are taking photos of each other and getting the, “Hey, get moving” from the “Dune” extras. Now they’re actually taking photos of the “Dune” extras. Now with the “Dune” extras. Koreans, we now see from the backs of their uniforms. Those guys want to stick around and ham it up. — DAVID SEGAL  The athletes of the Games are next to arrive. Since 1956, they have arrived at the closing ceremony not by nation, but as one group, symbolizing fraternity between nations. Still, judging by the clumps of similar uniforms, most are still primarily fraternizing with their teammates. The flags of the nations arrive together as well, with each carried by an athlete chosen by its delegation. Among the flag-carriers are the biathlon heroes Martin Fourcade of France and Ole Einar Bjorndalen of Norway, as well as the 55-year-old German prince who represented Mexico in skiing, Hubertus Von Hohenlohe. Though many nations have selected their most accomplished athlete for the honor of bearing the flag, the United States has opted for a silver medal winner, Julie Chu, part of the women’s hockey team that lost the final to Canada in heart-breaking fashion. Next up will be two gold-medal ceremonies, for the women’s and men’s marathon cross-country races. We’ll get to hear the Norwegian and, again, the Russian anthems. Mary gives a shout-out to India: Since the opening ceremony, the India Olympic committee was reinstated. That’s the first time in Olympic history that a reinstatement has occurred during an Games. Among other things, the American athletes are wearing baggy white pants that, weirdly, kind of taper at the ankle. — Sarah Lyall (@sarahlyall) 23 Feb 14    Not sure what this part will look like on TV, but in person it’s like all the extras from that David Lynch movie, “Dune,” got together for a little dance party, and it was crashed by hundreds of people waving flags. And then a bunch of athletes. And a D.J. who has a thing for ’90s-era synth pop. — DAVID SEGAL  Sam Dolnick is trying to find out whether one of the stagehands is wearing a onesie or not. Yes, I’m serious. — MARY PILON  There was a quick shot of Putin before the singing of the national anthem. Is there some law against Russian heads of state smiling? Seriously, the country spends $51 billion on this production, much of it taxpayer rubles, and he can’t even pretend to enjoy himself? What would be so wrong with a grin, Mr. President? No points off for a grin. The grump thing might work at a G-8 meeting. It just seems spoil-sporty here. — DAVID SEGAL   The shimmering silver performers form the Olympic rings … only one of the rings is a small ball rather than a full ring. It’s a cute and funny allusion to the failure of one of the rings to open at the opening ceremony. A nice touch that gets a big reaction from the crowd. After a moment for everyone to get the joke, the ring opens up correctly. President Vladimir V. Putin arrives and all of those in his presidential box leap to their feet to applaud vigorously. Now the Russian flag is brought in amid much pomp. The national anthem is performed by a 1,000-voice children’s choir. Among the bearers of the Russian flag is Vic Wild, the American-born snowboarder who won two golds for Russia here. — VICTOR MATHER  There is a Russian announcer here, taking turns with an announcer speaking French and English. Russian guy sounds like he’s having waaaay more fun. He’s delighted. He’s having a blast. Sounds like he’s leering, ever so slightly. The other two announcers sound moribund by comparison. Da. Let’s go English and French! Perk it up! It’s the Olympics. — DAVID SEGAL  Hordes of sequined performers swarming the stadium here. Like they stole the costumes from figure skaters and shaved off the flashy parts. They are running in formations that look like waves, which is fitting because they appear to be running atop a floor that is tricked out to resemble the ocean. The TV version makes a bit more sense because it’s shot from the top. Message is loud and clear: They’re going big with this production. — DAVID SEGAL  Fireworks erupt over the stadium and we are underway! A rowboat sails through the sky, taking Luba, the little girl who starred in the opening ceremony, on a voyage through Russian culture. Her boat is piloted by clowns. Yes, there will be clowns in tonight’s performance. Fair warning. — VICTOR MATHER   Refresher: London’s closing ceremony featured the Who, a dude getting shot out of a cannon and a reunion of the Spice Girls. To quote the snowboarders here, I’m stoked, but the bar is never low for pageantry at the Games. — MARY PILON  The ceremony officially begins at the symbolic time of 20:14. (That’s 8:14 p.m., or 11:14 a.m. Eastern.) In the meantime, the preshow has stopped, and the arena has gone somewhat quiet, aside from recorded eerie organ music combined with angelic (or demonic) sopranos singing “ahhhh.” Hundreds of long pipes have also descended from the ceiling, their purpose unclear. The crowd breaks the creepy mood with chants of “Russ-i-yah.” But even they can’t drown out the ethereal sopranos, who seem to be hitting higher notes every moment. — VICTOR MATHER   Whatever the evening brings, we know this much: it will vastly exceed what they are serving at the concession stands here. Wow. “Lump of bread” appears to be one of the big draws, though it probably has a more alluring name. Went with the hot dog. Tastes a bit like a bumper. Or what one imagines a bumper would taste like. The Russians have borrowed mightily from our pop culture, but they need some work on their stadium food. A lot of work. Stat! — DAVID SEGAL  Greetings! We’re in place in Fisht Stadium. The pregame scene thus far is very akin to that of opening ceremony. A nice woman and man talking to us in Russian while lights flicker in the stands and pop music blares and fans trickle in. I’m pleased to report that Segway camera dude, the unsung hero of the opening ceremony, has returned. En route, I caught a glimpse of the Olympians lining up in their festive gear at the athletes’ village. — MARY PILON  It’s time for the preshow! Surely some of the best stuff will be shown now before an audience of a few thousand early arrivals in the stadium rather than saved for the hundreds of millions watching the main ceremony on television later. Right? Right? And here comes the opening act. It’s a rock band with violins that plays an extraordinarily diverse medley that includes “Money” by Pink Floyd, “We Are the Champions,” the “Mission Impossible” theme song and that “duh duh duh, duh-duh duh” song played at hockey games. Sorry, that’s the best way I can describe it. And now the runners-up from the 2012 Eurovision Song Contest: Buranovskiye Babushki, a group of eight Russian grandmothers. They perform their big hit, “Everybody Dance,” with the lyrics changed to add the words “Sochi” and “Olympics.” Now it’s the glam metal band Gorky Park with their 1992 hit “Moscow Calling” Who left these boys out of the main ceremony? Scandal! — VICTOR MATHER  Forget sports. What really unites the world are pictures where people pretend to be holding giant things. http://t.co/VbSchPjFVV — Sam Dolnick (@samdolnick) 23 Feb 14  As at the opening ceremony, it’s surprisingly chilly in Fisht Stadium, a roofed, semi-enclosed arena. This time we received fair warning. A news release this morning cautioned: “Media should be aware that temperatures in the stadium can be significantly lower than elsewhere in the Olympic precinct. Tribunes are covered but not protected from winds blowing from the sea.” After the incongruous feeling of warm sun at a Winter Olympics, even sometimes high in the mountains, spectators tonight are finally getting a more typical taste of the season. Many of those around me are putting their jackets back on and adding hats or hoods to ward off those Black Sea gusts. — VICTOR MATHER  We’re still a couple hours away from the start of proceedings, but your correspondent has finagled his way into the stadium already and is getting a sneak peek at rehearsal. Much of what is to transpire is off limits for reporting until the ceremony starts, but I think I can say that I’ve just heard two stirring renditions of the Russian national anthem. It’s one of the few that really has the musical power to knock your socks off, and it seems we will be getting a particularly full-throated rendition tonight. We’ve already been tipped off that there will be a 1,000-voice children’s choir at the show, and all signs are that that number may just be scratching the surface of the cast tonight. — VICTOR MATHER Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Travel   Back to Borneo, and an Eden at Risk. Advertisement Advertisement By KAREN J. COATESFEB. 21, 2014 There are no roads to the village of Pa Lungan, just a mucky water buffalo trail beneath a tight-knit canopy — among the last standing highland jungles on the island of Borneo. In spots, the trail is more swamp than path. But that does not mean all is quiet: The rain forest is a cacophonous place. Cicadas squeal and monkeys hoot as they romp through the trees. Bamboo creaks in the breeze as its stalks grind and rub in a primitive dance. Our journey through Borneo began seven years ago, when, on a whim, my husband and I visited the Kelabit Highlands, situated in Sarawak, one of two Malaysian states on the island. I’d been invited to a conference in the capital city of Kuching; with some time on our hands, we headed to this remote region, most easily accessible by turboprop plane, which flew a few times each week from Miri, on the coast, to the small town of Bario. (The alternatives were many hours, even days, on precarious logging roads, or several weeks on foot through the forest.) Thanks to a reporting fellowship, we found ourselves back in the Highlands last year. Things had changed somewhat — that flight now leaves twice daily, and a newly graded dirt road eases travel in and out of Bario. The town had grown slightly — more houses, a few concrete-slab roads — but the tempo had not. Bario Asal, the town’s original longhouse, remains, albeit a bit quieter than in years past. But local families still gather by unvented fires in a common area filled with smoke and chitchat. Tourists come to see this. “More tourists, every day,” a Kelabit elder named Jenette Ulun said — one or two a day, sometimes a dozen. “There are more tourists than us locals,” she joked. For centuries, the Kelabit people lived isolated lives, best known to the outside world as champion headhunters. But that began to change under the reign of the so-called White Rajahs, a British family by the name of Brooke, who reigned in Sarawak from 1841 to 1946 and tried to rid the region of headhunting. Meanwhile, Christian missionaries converted the Kelabits in the 1940s and clamped down on alcohol consumption. Ever since, the Kelabits, who now number about 6,000, have gladly practiced evangelical Christianity with ceremonies far less laborious than their old animist rituals, they say. And the Kelabits have modernized in other ways: Gone are skulls hanging from the rafters, replaced by fireside cellphones and laptops. Until a few years ago, travelers came for the “Bario Loop,” and other multiday treks organized by local Kelabit guides that hugged the Indonesian border through jungles now logged. These days, most visitors take shorter hikes and experience Kelabit culture in local homes. On our first trip to Bario, my husband and I lodged at De Plateau, a homestay near the forest leading to Pa Lungan. I remember the cold-water showers and the outdoor sink, which faced a panorama of blue-green hills bathed in flowery air. Dinners consisted of fried wild boar, fiddlehead ferns and sautéed, burgundy-red ginger flowers. Advertisement We hired a guide who led us up and down a sodden trail, a foot-long blade called a parang hanging from a scabbard at his hip. Five hours on, we found Pa Lungan, set like a mountain oasis amid verdant, dewy grasses and sparkling ponds. That’s where we met Walter Paran, our village host. He took us to his wooden house set on stilts, where we met his wife, Moriaty, and his then-toddler daughter, Mujan. Walter’s mother squatted by a blackened hearth, tending a pot of simmering cucumber. “Very simple food,” Walter said. Advertisement We also met Walter’s brother, Pasen Mado Inan, who praised the forests around him. “Most of the things we need for every day come from the jungle,” he said. He feared it would disappear — the trucks were getting closer. “We hate the logging.” Walter asked us to return so he could take us deeper into the forest, “before logging disturbs that side.” As my husband and I flew out of Bario a few days later, we saw early evidence of what he feared. Below, thick jungle turned to naked hills laced with ruddy roads. “No one can stop them,” our pilot said. “It’s disgusting.” For years, I wondered what became of Walter, his family and their forests. I read of jungles all over Borneo, chopped and cleared, replanted with palms. To raze a rain forest is to bulldoze one of the earth’s biggest carbon stores. To erase this forest would also be to annihilate an age-old way of life. Seven years later, we returned, again flying a turboprop into Bario. This time, we stayed with Stephen Baya, a Kelabit artist, and his Danish wife, Tine Hjetting, in their homestay-gallery called Jungle Blues Dream, in a longhouse overlooking the wild yonder of rice paddies, homes and wooded hills that disappeared each morning in a shroud of fog. Stephen, a self-taught artist, fills his wooden walls with vivid trees of life, a motif that symbolizes, for him, a “journey never-ending.” Stephen was born in the Highlands but spent years working for Hilton, Holiday Inn and a Printemps department store elsewhere in Malaysia. He prefers Bario. Living the city life, he said, means “always having to think about tomorrow, think about next week.” When I told Stephen of my search for Walter, he relayed the message. Spotty cellphone coverage now permeates parts of the jungle. (We later learned that if Walter wedges his phone into one particular window and stands back, he can sometimes maintain a conversation.) Walter successfully received Stephen’s message and said he awaited our arrival. Stephen drove us to the road’s end, and from there, we hoofed it, packs on backs, sticks in hand. Along the way, elements of our first trip came back: the tests of balance provided by bridges the width of two logs that spanned streams and broad swaths of mud; an avenue of palms beneath higher, old-growth trees. We stopped at the palms, sat on a log and ate canned chicken curry. In the distance, we heard what sounded like faint, high-pitched voices. There were no trails, no villages, no one around. Perhaps it was wind, making the treetops squeak. Elders later spoke of talking spirits that occasionally spook villagers on foot in the forest. Pa Lungan was idyllic as ever. We found Walter’s home, but he was out somewhere. Moriaty and Mujan, who was 9 by the time of our return visit, offered us instant coffee, fried shrimp crackers and a seat at their long wooden table. After a cold bucket shower and a short rest, we joined a party next door: Village hunters had caught a boar that morning, and its head crackled on the fire. They offered strips of hot, juicy fat and grilled petai beans, known for their sulfuric stench but delicious flavor. The sky that evening was a spectacle of tropical-fruit colors: tangerine, passionfruit, papaya. Then darkness fell, and Walter’s generator rumbled on. The power allowed for a few efficiency lights, and a TV — the latter an addition since our previous visit. Mujan lay under a blanket, watching Bruce Lee chop his way through “Fist of Fury.” Advertisement In the morning, we were greeted by Walter, who remembered us and had many things to share. He wanted to show us why tourists still come to Pa Lungan. “They love the place because it’s still green,” he said. Nearby Pulong Tau National Park was expanded in 2008, creating a buffer between his village and the logging threat, he told us. He said Pa Lungan remains a “nice, quiet place” — for now. Together, we hiked a nearby mountain, across the soft earthen floor beneath palms that Walter’s ancestors had planted generations ago. The forest was dense. “This one you can call primary jungle,” he said. From there, we scrambled a near-vertical climb to the hilltop, where a giant metal cross, placed by someone from Pa Lungan (its exact origins are murky), was dedicated to “God’s saving grace”; a sign commemorates the need to avoid bringing “anything detestable” into the land. Below, Pa Lungan seemed to float in an undulating sea of trees. THAILAND VIETNAM MYANMAR South China Sea CAMBODIA BRUNEI Sabah MALAYSIA Sarawak SINGAPORE BORNEO INDONESIA Indian Ocean 400 miles That’s Indonesia, Walter said, pointing to the horizon. He added: “Other side of the mountain, they already logged.” He eyed the area behind the cross, toward another area that had already been logged. From this vantage, we could also see Pulong Tau. Walter hoped the park would last, that its boundaries would hold; not all government decisions do, he had told us earlier. Walter knew he was living in an Eden at risk, but has always said he will fight for it. “I’m the one who’s always fighting against this logging,” he told me in 2006. Today, he has more hope for this view, still intact. We peered across thick stands of trees where Walter had taken us foraging for edible palms and rattans, and bamboos with liquid inside. He said he could live in that forest on the food and drink it provided. It had, after all, sustained centuries of people before him. “That’s why we need to keep our jungle,” he said. Bario, and most Kelabit villages, offer homestay lodging with meals included. Jungle Blues Dream (junglebluesdream.weebly.com) charges 70 ringgit per person per day, about $21 at 3.25 ringgit to the dollar. The owners can help arrange guides (typically 80 to 100 ringgit a day) and lodging elsewhere. Prices for homestay lodgings generally range from 50 to 90 ringgit a day. Several Pa Lungan villagers welcome guests, at similar rates, including Walter Paran; arrange in advance from Bario or simply show up. A version of this article appears in print on February 23, 2014, on page TR8 of the New York edition with the headline: Back to Borneo, and an Eden at Risk. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
U.S.   An Underground Eye for the Border Patrol. Kevin Hecht, a Border Patrol agent in Nogales, Ariz., demonstrated a tactical robot that is used to explore drug tunnels discovered along the border with Mexico. CreditSamantha Sais for The New York Times 1 of 5 Many blacks see Chicago as a hostile city that is not a good for children. Whites are also critical of the city, but more positive overall.
Business   null
Business   @GSElevator Tattletale Exposed (He Was Not in the Goldman Elevator). Advertisement A three-year parlor game has been taking place on Wall Street to identify the Goldman Sachs employee behind a Twitter account that purports to reveal the uncensored comments overheard in the firm’s elevators. The Twitter account, @GSElevator, reports overheard remarks like, “I never give money to homeless people. I can’t reward failure in good conscience,” and “Groupon…Food stamps for the middle class.” The Twitter account, which has an audience of more than 600,000 followers, has been the subject of an internal inquiry at Goldman to find the rogue employee. The tweets, often laced with insider references to deals in the news, appeal to both Wall Street bankers and outsiders who mock the industry. Late last month, the writer sold a book about Wall Street culture based on the tweets for a six-figure sum.   The author is a 34-year-old former bond executive who lives in Texas. His name is John LeFevre. He had tried to remain anonymous, scrubbing the Internet of mentions of his name and pictures of himself on all but a handful of sites. Some people had already speculated that @GSElevator was not hanging around the halls of Goldman. The ability of people like Mr. LeFevre to create anonymous Twitter accounts underscores concerns about the veracity of what is published and the identity of authors. It also raises questions about whether publishers are blurring the line between real life and the made-up kind. Upon being contacted late last week after several weeks of reporting uncovered his identity, he confirmed his alter ego. “Frankly, I’m surprised it has taken this long,” he said by phone. “I knew this day would come.” Mr. LeFevre, who worked for Citigroup for seven years, said the Twitter account started as “a joke to entertain myself.” He quickly interrupted the inevitable line of questioning about how he had never worked at Goldman and appeared to be an impostor. “To pre-empt what you’re about to say, legally speaking,” he said, “I was never explicitly an employee of the firm.” Mr. LeFevre was offered a job as head of debt syndicate in Asia at Goldman’s Hong Kong office in August 2010, but the offer was later revoked, according to people at the firm who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the matter. Mr. LeFevre said his previous employer contended that he was bound by a noncompete agreement and “things turned nasty with my old boss and he threatened a lawsuit against me and Goldman.” By Mr. LeFevre’s own account of his experience with Goldman: “My contract was never rescinded. We cordially agreed to part ways to avoid a public mess. I don’t know how much I can talk about it. It wasn’t acrimonious.” When pressed about whether he had implicitly misrepresented himself as a Goldman employee, he said he deliberately never said in any of his tweets that he worked for the firm. “This was never about me as a person,” he said. “It wasn’t about a firm. The stories aren’t Goldman Sachs in particular. It was about the culture in general.” A Goldman spokesman, after being told that @GSElevator had been unmasked, said in a statement, “We are pleased to report that the official ban on talking in elevators will be lifted effective immediately.” The fact that Mr. LeFevre was not a Goldman employee did not appear to dissuade his publisher, Touchstone, an imprint of Simon & Schuster, which said it had not been misled. “He’s been pretty straight with us the entire time, so this is not a surprise,” said the book’s editor, Matthew Benjamin, who bought the book without ever meeting Mr. LeFevre. “That you’re writing about him speaks to the interest he’s generated. We always expected his identity to be revealed at some point.” Mr. LeFevre’s agent, Byrd Leavell, said: “What matters is that every story in the book is true. John’s material he delivered is hilarious. The book isn’t going to live or die on whether he worked at Goldman Sachs for two months or not.” Mr. LeFevre, who started at Citigroup in New York in 2001 after graduating from Babson College before moving with the firm to London and then Hong Kong, said that he was inspired to start the Twitter account in the fall of 2011. “I was sitting around with a friend at a bar,” he said. At the time, an account called @CondeElevator had sprung up, supposedly chronicling the goings-on in the elevator of the media company Condé Nast. “I thought, ‘This is ridiculous that people are infatuated with Condé Nast. If they only saw the elitist, sexist and out-of-touch things bankers say.’ People had no idea what it is really like.” He said he chose to name his account after Goldman Sachs because “it was commercial.” In an email, Mr. LeFevre added, Goldman “has more love/hate Main Street appeal.” At the time, the Occupy Wall Street movement was in full swing. He said he was also struck by some of the lines, comical to him, he heard from people at Goldman when he first received a job offer. “Even socializing with them — going to bars and having guys buy girls drinks and then throw out a line like, ‘Don’t worry ladies, these drinks are on Goldman Sachs.’ ” Mr. LeFvre, who left Citigroup in 2008 and began to work at a start-up boutique firm in 2009 in Hong Kong, insisted that many of the exchanges he published on Twitter were true: “I’ve been collecting these stories for years.” He said his intent was neither to mock nor glamorize Wall Street. “I do not have an agenda to paint the people or this culture one way or the other,” he said, adding that he was “always a cynical banker” when he worked on Wall Street but “I loved it. We did a lot of crazy stuff. It’s not like I had a great epiphany along the way.” Still, he said that working on Wall Street was an eye-opener. “I went into investment banking and I saw a group of people that aren’t as impressive as I thought they were — or as impressive as they thought they were. They defined themselves as human beings by their jobs.” His Twitter feed has become red meat for industry critics, something Mr. LeFevre said was initially unintentional but later something he tried to stoke. “A lot of times I pander, I’ll be honest with you. I pander for retweets,” he said, referring to users blasting copies of a tweet to their own followers, multiplying its reach. He said his Twitter account had evolved over the last few years: “Early on, I tweeted more about specific people or deals, inside jokes/commentary, and even a few ad hominem attacks. That gave me a certain validation and credibility. But over time, the tweets have been increasingly styled to have a bit more commercial appeal. “I don’t consider it selling out or pandering to a lower common denominator; I think of it more as adapting to what the widest possible audience of people responds favorably to.” Mr. LeFevre, who refused to disclose his location in Texas, started worrying several months ago that his identity would be revealed. He received some emails from friends who had guessed it was him. He also noticed that some Goldman Sachs employees had viewed his LinkedIn profile page; he later removed it. Now that he has been outed, he said, “it’s something that can be embraced. And I certainly don’t have anything to hide.” A sampling of musings from GSElevator’s Twitter account: #1: I just want to be rich enough to not be motivated by money. — GS Elevator Gossip (@GSElevator) 14 Dec 13 #1: Only Neanderthals resort to violence. I prefer crushing one’s spirit, hope, or ego. — GS Elevator Gossip (@GSElevator) 25 Dec 13 #1: Some chick asked me what I would do with 10 million bucks. I told her I’d wonder where the rest of my money went. — GS Elevator Gossip (@GSElevator) 12 Nov 13 Andrew Ross Sorkin is the editor at large of DealBook. Twitter: @andrewrsorkin A version of this article appears in print on 02/25/2014, on page A1 of the NewYork edition with the headline: ‘Goldman’ Tattletale Exposed (No, He Wasn’t in the Elevator). Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   Leopard on Loose Paralyzes Northern Indian City. Advertisement   NEW DELHI — A roaming leopard has caused life in the northern Indian city of Meerut to come to a halt. Since Sunday, the leopard has attacked a police official, a television news cameraman and four residents, all of whom survived, but the police official and cameraman have been hospitalized, Pankaj Yadav, the chief official of Meerut district, said Monday. Several others were hurt when a crowd of people watching the leopard ran in panic after the animal started jumping at onlookers. Schools and colleges have been closed, and some women are not allowing their husbands and children outside the home. Meanwhile, police officials, wildlife experts and forest officials are working to catch the leopard. The Indian Army has also offered assistance. The leopard was first seen midday Sunday in a warehouse in central Meerut, a city of 1.5 million people 45 miles north of New Delhi in Uttar Pradesh. As the word spread, thousands of people gathered. “A man tried to show a bit of bravado and went close to the leopard,” said Abdur Rahman, the owner of cloth shop who was one of the observers. “The leopard injured him on his hand, and that created panic among onlookers.” The leopard, disturbed by people and camera flashes, leaped onto the wall of a nearby hospital and entered the building, where he remained for several hours. A wildlife team was called in from a neighboring district. “We used the tranquilizers three times and hit it twice,” said Mayukh Chatterjee of the Wildlife Trust of India, who is the head of a four-member wildlife expert team in Meerut. “He got a bit drowsy, but he was so powerful that he could break a concrete wall and jumped out. In my last 16 years of work, I have not seen such a long and powerful leopard.” He said the leopard may be around eight to 10 feet long and weighs around 80 to 85 kilograms, or 176 to 187 pounds. The leopard was last seen entering and exiting Vidya Laxmi Complex, a commercial center, said Sushant Sharma, the forest chief of Meerut district. “There is a sense of fear among people. We are doing our best,” said Mr. Sharma. Mr. Rahman, the cloth shop owner, who also lives near the complex, said the leopard sightings have been reported all over the city. “We are hearing all kinds of rumors like, the leopard is in the complex or at the hospital or at the mall,” he said. “My daughters wanted to come out and to see the whole drama, but my wife told them not to go out. She even wanted me also to remain at home today,” he said. The tension in the area is compounded with the fact that a man-eating tigress has killed at least 10 people in the neighboring districts in the last two months. “In such situations of men-animal conflict, it becomes more difficult to control the crowd,” said Mr. Chatterjee. “Wherever we go, we are followed by large number of people and a big media group.” Mr. Yadav said wildlife experts and forest officials did not find any leopard tracks or see the leopard on Monday. “Our teams will move around the whole night,” he said. “Yesterday, the city was quite in a panic, and 4,000 to 5,000 people were gathered on the streets. Today, because leopard has not been seen anywhere so there’s less fear.” India’s national elections began April 7 and will continue on nine separate dates until May 12, with results expected to be announced on May 16. The vote is the world’s largest, with 814 million eligible voters set to choose 543 members of the lower house of Parliament. The other two seats will be appointed by the president. This election is widely considered to be India’s most consequential since 1977. India Ink will be moving to the World page of The New York Times. Read more… A memorial ceremony at the Imphal War Cemetery in Manipur to honor the soldiers who died during World War II.Read more… The newly elected prime minister reaches out to the public in a blog post about his first 30 days in office.Read more… Newborns whose mothers are unable to breastfeed are given stored breast milk to protect them from potentially life-threatening infection.Read more… In the final stage of a long decline, Hindustan Motors announced in May that it would suspend production of the Ambassador, a car that was once synonymous with style and status.Read more… This report on India from the journalists of The New York Times and a pool of talented writers in India and beyond provides unbiased, authoritative reporting on the country and its place in the world. India Ink also strives to be a virtual meeting point for discussion of this complex, fast-changing democracy – its politics, economy, culture and everyday life. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Movies   Harold Ramis's Many Roles. The film critic A. O. Scott discusses the career of the actor and director Harold Ramis, who died Monday. He is best known for his impact on comedy.          
Science   Probing the Parliament of Neurons. Clay Reid and colleagues are going deep into the mouse brain to decipher the conversations and decisions of neurons.          
Sports   Nadal, Back in Form, Prevails in Rio. Advertisement Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSFEB. 24, 2014 Rafael Nadal returned from a troublesome back injury to win the Rio Open, defeating Alexandr Dolgopolov of Ukraine, 6-3, 7-6 (3). In the women’s final, Kurumi Nara of Japan defeated top-seeded Klara Zakopalova of the Czech Republic, 6-1, 4-6, 6-1, to win her first WTA singles title. ■ Marin Cilic of Croatia won the Delray Beach Open in Florida for his 11th ATP World Tour title and second in three weeks, beating Kevin Anderson, 7-6 (6), 6-7 (7), 6-4. ■ Ernests Gulbis of Latvia, the third seed, beat the defending champion Jo-Wilfried Tsonga of France, 7-6 (5), 6-4, in the Open 13 in Marseille, France, to win his fifth career title. A version of this brief appears in print on February 24, 2014, on page D4 of the New York edition with the headline: Nadal, Back in Form, Prevails in Rio. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Travel   A Token of Anne Frank’s Childhood, on View. Advertisement The set of marbles that Anne Frank played with before she was forced into hiding are on display for the first time. The marbles and their original tin box take center stage in the exhibit “The Second World War in 100 Objects,” which runs through May 11 at the Kunsthal Rotterdam. Like other Jewish children who gave away their toys when they had to report for deportation or go into hiding, Anne Frank left several treasured possessions with a neighborhood playmate, Toosje Kupers, before she and her family moved into the “secret annex” on the Prinsengracht canal in Amsterdam on July 6, 1942. Ms. Kupers, now 83, donated several items of Frank’s — a toy tea set, a book and the marbles — to the Anne Frank House. Other artifacts in the World War II exhibit include the grave marker cross of  the American pilot James M. Hansen, who is buried at the Netherlands American Cemetery and Memorial at Margraten; a decoy paratrooper dummy, known as a “Rupert,” used by the British to deceive the German troops; and a sweater made from dog’s hair during the Dutch famine of 1944-45. In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Business   Shell Game. Advertisement By Ruth B. Margolin Feb 26, 2014 The New York Times Crossword is available through subscription only. WEDNESDAY’S PUZZLE — Today marks the debut of crossword constructor Ruth B. Margolin, whose first-ever New York Times puzzle has been rated a Wednesday difficulty. Not bad for a newcomer. Appropriately enough for a debut, the puzzle’s language exudes the idea of achievement and of reaching new heights. There’s a nod to the first flight of the Wright brothers with the clue for AVIATE and to another entry about upward-climbing mountaineers with ASCENTS. Those who enjoy a good echo will be treated to a fine example today with the repeat use of the word “shell.” The clues in question are “Shell carries it” and “It carries a shell,” referring, respectively to GAS and a SNAIL. Context is key, folks — it could mean the difference between an oil company and a mollusk. Some other noteworthy entries include “1984 superstate” for EURASIA, and “winter topper” for SKI CAP. I had no idea about the answer for “sheer curtain fabric” at 38 Across, but I was bailed out by a couple familiar crossers — among them, Che GUEVARA, the trusty SPORK, and an airtight ALIBI. That gave me more than enough letters to hazard a guess about the fabric, and voilà! It’s VOILE! Now I’ll turn the mike over to Ruth: I am quite excited to have my first puzzle published, and what began as a lark has become an engaging hobby. I solve the puzzle daily, and occasionally a puzzle takes a particular approach to playing with language that gives me an “I can do that!” feeling and sends me off in search of words and puns that fit my concept. I no longer remember any particular puzzle that sparked the wordplay part of my brain and led me to create this one, adding IST to familiar words. The challenge of course, was that the addition of IST had to change the meaning of the word entirely. There’s no humor in changing “violin” to “violinist.” So to the word lists. I pored through lists of words containing IST, mentally subtracting the IST to find those words that could then be built into phrases that had the potential to win a chuckle once the IST was put back in. So from “cubist” to “cub” to “cub reporter” to CUBISTREPORTER. I think my favorite answer has to be SLEEPERCELLISTS (though my proposed clue was “Musicians who tend to be flat?”). Having played in the wind section of orchestras throughout my youth, I know what it is to count many dozens of measures of rests before an entrance, trying to maintain concentration, while the string players played without pause. It always seemed possible that someone might one day fall asleep, but I never thought it would be the cellists! I was pleased with the phrases I was able to create, and even more pleased that Will (finally!) liked them, too. (I don’t think I have to confess here just how many of my submissions have not made the grade….) So now that I’ve met Will’s standards and made my debut, am I a strict constructionIST? In honor of 41 down, here’s a sample of the CALYPSO music of Harry Belafonte. What did you think? Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. Emily Cox and Henry Rathvon offer us a challenging cryptic crossword puzzle.Read more… A place for solvers to discuss and ask questions about the “A Little Variety” suite of puzzles.Read more… Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… David Poole has something up his sleeve.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Food   Recipe Lab. Our favorite recipes explained in two minutes or less.          Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics The Killing of Farkhunda Best of Obama's Correspondents' Dinner Speech How Will Obama Spend His Retirement? Erdogan’s March to Autocracy in Turkey The ‘Indecency of Present Overcrowding’ Jacques Pépin: How to Make an Omelet Bill Cunningham | Garden Party Coconut Cluster Granola Welfare and the Politics of Poverty
Foreign   New Coalition Takes On India’s Two Biggest Parties. Advertisement   NEW DELHI — Eleven political parties, including seven regional parties, formed a coalition on Tuesday in hopes of drawing voters away from India’s two main national parties in the general elections in May. “We have resolved to come together to present an alternative before the country,” said Prakash Karat, general secretary of Communist Party of India (Marxist), one of the members of the coalition, which is made up of the biggest regional parties in India, like the Samajwadi Party and Janata Dal (United). Mr. Karat condemned the Indian National Congress, which leads the governing coalition in New Delhi, for its corruption scandals and policies, which he called flawed, and accused the main opposition Bharatiya Janata Party, or B.J.P., of trying to divide the country with its Hindu nationalist politics. He said nine parties met in the capital on Tuesday to form the alliance, with the leaders of the two other parties, Biju Janata Dal and Asom Gana Parishad, unable to attend but giving their assent. Sanjay Kaul, the B.J.P. spokesman for the party’s New Delhi chapter, dismissed the new coalition as a nonfactor in the elections. “No front can survive unless it has a magnetic core or a gravitational pull,” he said. “They may coalesce because of situational advantages, but when it comes to a push and a shove, they would surely break down.” The coalition comes at a time when opinion polls conducted by media organizations have suggested that regional political parties could play a major role in forming the next government in case either of the two national parties fall short of an absolute majority in the Lok Sabha, or lower house of Parliament. Currently, the coalition has 92 seats in the lower house. That compares with 201 seats for the Congress party and 112 for the Bharatiya Janata Party. A party or alliance needs to have at least 272 members in the Lok Sabha, which has 543 members, to have any realistic chance of forming the next government. But even if the new coalition, which does not yet have a name, manages to take power, a look at the history of Indian politics shows that such so-called third-front governments – that is, those that are not led by Congress or the B.J.P. — have largely been unstable and unable to complete the full five-year term. One of the early experiments in third-front politics occurred in 1989, when a broad coalition of parties under Janata Dal formed a government under Prime Minister V.P. Singh. But disagreements among allies and the creation of factions led the government to fold in less than a year. Another coalition government was formed, this time under Chandra Shekhar, but this too splintered within a year. In 1996, the same scenes played out when the general elections ended in a fractured mandate. After B.J.P., which emerged as the single largest party with 161 seats, was unable to cobble together a majority in the Lok Sabha, a similar third-front government under Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda of Janata Dal came to power with the support of the Congress party. However, coalition strains again led the government to fall within a year. I.K. Gujral, another Janata Dal leader, was nominated to the prime minister’s post the same year, but he too could not stay in power for long. The government fell the next year and fresh elections were called. Since 1998, leaders of regional parties with prime ministerial ambitions have largely been forced to stand aside, as all central governments have been led by either the Congress party or the B.J.P. “It is my personal opinion that the third front is not at all plausible,” said Subhash Kashyap, an honorary professor at the Center for Policy Research in New Delhi. “It will not have a sizable win in the elections.” He said if the new coalition came to power, it would probably discourage economic development in India because of the inherent instability of such an alliance and the ideologies of the members. “If there is no political stability, there can be no economic reforms,” he said. “If you see the constituents of the third front, some of them are very much against economic reforms.” Rohit Ghosh, vice president and a senior research analyst at Moody’s Investors Service, said in a statement this month that the rise of regional parties would continue to “hamper the efficacy of nationwide policy making, regardless of the political complexion of the eventual central government.” However, he said, a phenomenal showing by any of the country’s major parties would not guarantee economic growth either. How do you think the new coalition will do in the national elections? Please leave your comments below. India’s national elections began April 7 and will continue on nine separate dates until May 12, with results expected to be announced on May 16. The vote is the world’s largest, with 814 million eligible voters set to choose 543 members of the lower house of Parliament. The other two seats will be appointed by the president. This election is widely considered to be India’s most consequential since 1977. India Ink will be moving to the World page of The New York Times. Read more… A memorial ceremony at the Imphal War Cemetery in Manipur to honor the soldiers who died during World War II.Read more… The newly elected prime minister reaches out to the public in a blog post about his first 30 days in office.Read more… Newborns whose mothers are unable to breastfeed are given stored breast milk to protect them from potentially life-threatening infection.Read more… In the final stage of a long decline, Hindustan Motors announced in May that it would suspend production of the Ambassador, a car that was once synonymous with style and status.Read more… This report on India from the journalists of The New York Times and a pool of talented writers in India and beyond provides unbiased, authoritative reporting on the country and its place in the world. India Ink also strives to be a virtual meeting point for discussion of this complex, fast-changing democracy – its politics, economy, culture and everyday life. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Movies   The Carpetbagger. Get behind the scenes of Hollywood’s awards season, with close-up looks at Oscar-nominated films and exclusive red-carpet access to the hottest actors, actresses and directors.          Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics The Killing of Farkhunda Best of Obama's Correspondents' Dinner Speech How Will Obama Spend His Retirement? Erdogan’s March to Autocracy in Turkey The ‘Indecency of Present Overcrowding’ Jacques Pépin: How to Make an Omelet Bill Cunningham | Garden Party Coconut Cluster Granola Welfare and the Politics of Poverty
Science   The Brain’s Inner Language. Advertisement Advertisement The Map Makers By JAMES GORMAN FEB. 24, 2014 Clay Reid and colleagues are going deep into the mouse brain to decipher the conversations and decisions of neurons. SEATTLE — When Clay Reid decided to leave his job as a professor at Harvard Medical School to become a senior investigator at the Allen Institute for Brain Science in Seattle in 2012, some of his colleagues congratulated him warmly and understood right away why he was making the move. Others shook their heads. He was, after all, leaving one of the world’s great universities to go to the academic equivalent of an Internet start-up, albeit an extremely well- financed, very ambitious one, created in 2003 by Paul Allen, a founder of Microsoft. Still, “it wasn’t a remotely hard decision,” Dr. Reid said. He wanted to mount an all-out investigation of a part of the mouse brain. And although he was happy at Harvard, the Allen Institute offered not only great colleagues and deep pockets, but also an approach to science different from the classic university environment. The institute was already mapping the mouse brain in fantastic detail, and specialized in the large-scale accumulation of information in atlases and databases available to all of science. Now, it was expanding, and trying to merge its semi-industrial approach to data gathering with more traditional science driven by individual investigators, by hiring scientists like Christof Koch from the California Institute of Technology as chief scientific officer in 2011 and Dr. Reid. As a senior investigator, he would lead a group of about 100, and work with scientists, engineers and technicians in other groups. Without the need to apply regularly for federal grants, Dr. Reid could concentrate on one piece of the puzzle of how the brain works. He would try to decode the workings of one part of the mouse brain, the million neurons in the visual cortex, from, as he puts it, “molecules to behavior.” Advertisement There are many ways to map the brain and many kinds of brains to map. Although the ultimate goal of most neuroscience is understanding how human brains work, many kinds of research can’t be done on human beings, and the brains of mice and even flies share common processes with human brains. The work of Dr. Reid, and scientists at Allen and elsewhere who share his approach, is part of a surge of activity in brain research as scientists try to build the tools and knowledge to explain — as well as can ever be explained — how brains and minds work. Besides the Obama administration’s $100 million Brain Initiative and the European Union’s $1 billion, decade-long Human Brain Project, there are numerous private and public research efforts in the United States and abroad, some focusing on the human brain, others like Dr. Reid’s focusing on nonhumans. While the Human Connectome Project, which is spread among several institutions, aims for an overall picture of the associations among parts of the human brain, other scientific teams have set their sights on drilling to deeper levels. For instance, the Connectome Project at Harvard is pursuing a structural map of the mouse brain at a level of magnification that shows packets of neurochemicals at the tips of brain cells. At Janelia Farm, the Virginia research campus of the Howard Hughes Medical Institute, researchers are aiming for an understanding of the complete fly brain — a map of sorts, if a map can be taken to its imaginable limits, including structure, chemistry, genetics and activity. “I personally am inspired by what they’re doing at Janelia,” Dr. Reid said. All these efforts start with maps and enrich them. If Dr. Reid is successful, he and his colleagues will add what you might call the code of a brain process, the language the neurons use to store, transmit and process information for this function. Not that this would be any kind of final answer. In neuroscience, perhaps more than in most other disciplines, every discovery leads to new questions. “With the brain,” Dr. Reid said, “you can always go deeper.” ‘Psychoanalyst’s Kid Probes Brain!’ Dr. Reid, 53, grew up in Boston, in a family with deep roots in medicine. His grandfather taught physiology at Harvard Medical School. “My parents were both psychoanalysts,” he said during an interview last fall, smiling as he imagined a headline for this article, “Psychoanalyst’s Kid Probes Brain!” Advertisement “I pretty much always knew that I wanted to be a scientist,” he said. As an undergraduate at Yale, he majored in physics and philosophy and in mathematics, but in the end decided he didn’t want to be a physicist. Biology was attractive, but he was worried enough about his mathematical bent to talk to one of his philosophy professors about concerns that biology would too fuzzy for him. The professor had some advice. “You really should read Hubel and Wiesel,” he said, referring to David Hubel and Torsten Wiesel, who had just won the Nobel Prize in 1981 for their work showing how binocular vision develops in the brain. He read their work, and when he graduated in 1982, he was convinced that the study of the brain was both hard science and a wide-open field. He went on to an M.D.-Ph.D. program at Cornell Medical College and Rockefeller University, where Dr. Wiesel had his lab (he would go on to be president of Rockefeller). As his studies progressed, Dr. Reid began to have second thoughts about pursuing medicine rather than research. Just a week before he was to commit to a neurology residency, he said, “I ran into a friend from the Wiesel lab and said, ‘Save me.’ ” That plea led to postdoctoral research in the Rockefeller lab. He stayed as a faculty member until moving to Harvard in 1996. Advertisement Mathematics and physics were becoming increasingly important in neurobiology, a trend that has continued, but there was still a certain tension between different mind-sets, he recalled. He found that there were intangible skills involved in biological research. “Good biological intuition was equally important to chops in math and physics,” he said. “Torsten once said to me, ‘You know, Clay, science is not an intelligence test.’ ” Though he didn’t recall that specific comment, Dr. Wiesel said recently that it sounded like something he would have said. “I think there are a lot of smart people who never make it in science. Why is it? What is it that is required in addition?” Intuition is important, he said, “knowing what kind of questions to ask.” And, he said, “the other thing is a passion for getting to the core of the problem.” Advertisement Dr. Reid, he said, was not only smart and full of energy, but also “interested in asking questions that I think can get to the core of a problem.” At Harvard, Dr. Reid worked on the Connectome Project to map the connections between neurons in the mouse brain. The Connectome Project aims at a detailed map, a wiring diagram at a level fantastically more detailed than the work being done to map the human brain with M.R.I. machines. But electron microscopes produce a static picture from tiny slices of preserved brain. Dr. Reid began working on tying function to mapping. He and one of his graduate students, Davi Bock, now at Janelia Farm, linked studies of active mouse brains to the detailed structural images produced by electron microscopes. Dr. Bock said he recalled Dr. Reid as having developed exactly the kind of intuition and “good lab hands” that Dr. Wiesel seemed to be encouraging. He and another graduate student were stumped by a technical problem involving a new technique for studying living brains, and Dr. Reid came by. “Clay got on this bench piled up with components,” Dr. Bock said. “He started plugging and unplugging different power cables. We just stood there watching him, and I was sure he was going to scramble everything.” But he didn’t. Whatever he did worked. FEB. 24, 2014 That was part of the fun of working in the lab, Dr. Bock said, “not that he got it right every time.” But his appreciation for Dr. Reid as a leader and mentor went beyond admiration for his “mad scientist lab hands.” “He has a deep gut level enthusiasm for what’s beautiful and what’s profound in neuroscience, and he’s kind of relentless,” Dr. Bock said. Showing a Mouse a Picture That instinct, enthusiasm and relentlessness will be necessary for his current pursuit. To crack the code of the brain, Dr. Reid said, two fundamental problems must be solved. Advertisement The first is: “How does the machine work, starting with its building blocks, cell types, going through their physiology and anatomy,” he said. That means knowing all the different types of neurons in the mouse visual cortex and their function — information that science doesn’t have yet. It also means knowing what code is used to pass on information. When a mouse sees a picture, how is that picture encoded and passed from neuron to neuron? That is called neural computation. “The other highly related problem is: How does that neural computation create behavior?” he said. How does the mouse brain decide on action based on that input? He imagined the kind of experiment that would get at these deep questions. A mouse might be trained to participate in an experiment now done with primates in which an animal looks at an image. Later, seeing several different images in sequence, the animal presses a lever when the original one appears. Seeing the image, remembering it, recognizing it and pressing the lever might take as long as two seconds and involve activity in several parts of the brain. Understanding those two seconds, Dr. Reid said, would mean knowing “literally what photons hit the retina, what information does the retina send to the thalamus and the cortex, what computations do the neurons in the cortex do and how do they do it, how does that level of processing get sent up to a memory center and hold the trace of that picture over one or two seconds.” Then, when the same picture is seen a second time, “the hard part happens,” he said. “How does the decision get made to say, ‘That’s the one’?” In pursuit of this level of understanding, Dr. Reid and others are gathering chemical, electrical, genetic and other information about what the structure of that part of the mouse brain is and what activity is going on. They will develop electron micrographs that show every neuron and every connection in that part of a mouse brain. That is done on dead tissue. Then they will use several techniques to see what goes on in that part of the brain when a living animal reacts to different situations. “We can record the activity of every single cell in a volume of cortex, and capture the connections,” he said. Advertisement With chemicals added to the brain, the most advanced light microscopes can capture movies of neurons firing. Electrodes can record the electrical impulses. And mathematical analysis of all that may decipher the code in which information is moved around that part of the brain. Dr. Reid says solving the first part of the problem — receiving and analyzing sensory information — might be done in 10 years. An engineer’s precise understanding of everything from photons to action could be more on the order of 20 to 30 years away, and not reachable through the work of the Allen Institute alone. But, he wrote in an email, “the large-scale, coordinated efforts at the institute will get us there faster.” He is studying only one part of one animal’s brain, but, he said, the cortex — the part of the mammalian brain where all this calculation goes on — is something of a general purpose computer. So the rules for one process could explain other processes, like hearing. And the rules for decision-making could apply to many more complicated situations in more complicated brains. Perhaps the mouse visual cortex can be a kind of Rosetta stone for the brain’s code. All research is a gamble, of course, and the Allen Institute’s collaborative approach, while gaining popularity in neuroscience, is not universally popular. Dr. Wiesel said it was “an important approach” that would “provide a lot of useful information.” But, he added, “it won’t necessarily create breakthroughs in our understanding of how the brain works.” “I think the main advances are going to be made by individual scientists working in small groups,” he said. Of course, in courting and absorbing researchers like Dr. Reid, the Allen Institute has been moving away from its broad data-gathering approach toward more focused work by individual investigators. Dr. Bock, his former student, said his experience suggested that Dr. Reid had not only a passion and intensity for research, but a good eye for where science is headed as well. “That’s what Clay does,” he said. “He is really good in that Wayne Gretzky way of skating to where the puck will be.” The Map Makers: Second in a series of articles about scientists behind the new efforts to explore the brain. A version of this article appears in print on February 25, 2014, on page D1 of the New York edition with the headline: The Brain’s Inner Language. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Sports   Clippers Defeat Pelicans. Advertisement Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSFEB. 24, 2014 Jamal Crawford hit seven 3-point shots on his way to 24 points, and the visiting Los Angeles Clippers beat the New Orleans Pelicans, 123-110. Chris Paul had 19 points and 13 assists in his latest return to New Orleans. ■ Stephen Curry had 19 points, 9 assists and 8 rebounds, and the visiting Golden State Warriors beat the Detroit Pistons, 104-96. The Pistons have lost five of seven since firing Maurice Cheeks as coach. A version of this brief appears in print on February 25, 2014, on page B16 of the New York edition with the headline: Clippers Defeat Pelicans. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Technology   BlackBerry’s Chief: ‘We Have a Plan’. In an interview with CNBC, John Chen, BlackBerry’s chief executive, commented on his company’s growth plans from the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona.          
Travel   An Inside Look at Cooking and Dining in Tel Aviv. Advertisement Six years ago, Tel Aviv tapped into its inner voyeur when it joined the international movement “Houses from Within,” a festival in which residents of some of the city’s most interesting (and opulent) homes fling open their doors and allow the public to visit. Now the city has created its own spin-off event, with some of Tel Aviv’s most prestigious chefs opening their kitchen doors and allowing snoops and snackers alike a chance to see the workings of a restaurant from the inside. Open Restaurants, which had a test run last July and will offer its first full-fledged event beginning Wednesday, includes kitchen sneak-peeks, culinary workshops and chef-guided tours of Tel Aviv’s open-air market. “We’re going to try to show you the restaurant from the inside, how we get our supplies here, how we cook it, and later of course, how we eat it,” said Orel Kimchi, chef and owner at Popina, one of the 70 restaurants hosting events over the four-day festival. On Mr. Kimchi’s docket for the event is a trip to the local fishmonger, spectators in tow, where he will purchase a fresh drum fish and then offer a master class on scaling it, filleting it and preparing it five ways. Other workshops include ice cream making, learning the science of pizza dough and a chance to peer into the kitchen during a frenzied service at theTel Aviv hot spot Brasserie. Workshops range from  50 shekels (about $15) to  300  shekels ($88), most in Hebrew with a select few offered in English. Reservations and more information are at open-restaurants.co.il. In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
U.S.   Clinton Makes Kentucky Appearance. The former president spoke at a fund-raiser in Louisville for Alison Lundergan Grimes, a Democratic Senate candidate.          
Arts   Marvel TV Series to Film in New York. Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo helps announce the scheduled filming of a TV series based on Marvel characters in New York.          
Business   Anything Goes. Advertisement By Stanley Newman Feb 27, 2014 The New York Times Crossword is available through subscription only. THURSDAY’S PUZZLE —#8212; Stanley Newman, the man behind today’s AMAZIN’ crossword, has created a theme set “in a neighborhood bar,” in which four answers together form a sentence you might hear at a local tavern. The sort of place where everybody knows your name — and everyone’s a gossip. Solve the puzzle and you’ll see what I mean. Some answers came as easy as LAY UPS while others took PLENTY of time. The bartender MOE was a gimme (at least for us Simpsons fanatics) and a welcome way to make inroads into the northern half of the puzzle — leading to entries like ENAMEL and FAKE. But the more esoteric clues took quite a while. The enigmatic 2 Down (“formed, as schoolyard teams, say”) was one of the first clues that I read but it was the last that I solved. Did it take anybody else a long time to figure out CHOSE UP? This puzzle also asks a question about the Summer Games, keeping the Olympic spirit going just days after the conclusion of the Sochi festivities. The clue at 37 Down asks for the “locale of three Summer Olympics,” and the answer Stanley is looking for is broader than just a city — it is the whole continent of ASIA, home to the host cities of Tokyo (1964), Seoul (1988) and Beijing (2008). Stanley has a lot to say about his construction, so I’ll let him have a word. Inspiration for this puzzle came from my 30-year-old son Marc (whom Will bounced on his knee at my home about 27 years ago), who sells items on eBay for his London office-salvage business. One of his recent items was a plaque with the theme message, for which only the original WE’LL needed to be changed to WE WILL to break perfectly. By dumb luck, Will was short of non-rebus Thursdays, so it appears today only 19 days after he OK’d it. I clue puzzles hard by having as many “new” clues as possible, requiring some thought and reasoning to solve, rather than ones that can be solved at sight by solvers with good memories. Most of the new factual clues here come from Internet research, such as 52A, 63A, 8D and 34D. An added requirement to my harder clues is that only general knowledge should be required to understand them, even if the fact itself isn’t well-known. For example, anyone from New York should know that AMAZIN (14A) is associated with the Mets, so it shouldn’t be surprising that a website all about the Mets is called Amazin’ Avenue. One other clue nicety here that might not be obvious: a factual balance between new pop culture (like 18A, 55A), older (40A, 25D), and historical (42A, 10D). I made sure that all my factual references could be quickly and authoritatively verified with Google, and passed that info along to Will with the puzzle. While some my new clues for uncapitalized answers also come from Web research (“Time-stretching” for 41D SLO-MO came from a Wikipedia article), I can often think of something fresh by just letting my mind wander. That’s where I got 56A and 1D, for instance. Will is obviously onboard with all of this thinking, since he kept about three-quarters of my clues, including all the ones cited above. In the 1,000-plus crosswords I’ve constructed and the 5,000-plus I’ve edited (for the New York newspaper Newsday and PuzzleSocial.com) since adopting Crossword Compiler in 2000, I’ve found that with careful grid patterning it’s never necessary to use obscurities, even for wide-open grids such as the 72-worder here. This sometimes requires that I check Google News and Google Books, to be sure that words I think are in common current use actually are. I look forward to the day where this fussiness will be standard procedure for constructors, so we can finally bid the OLEOs, OLIOs and ANILs of crosswordese an unfond farewell. Anyone wishing to throw bouquets or stones at me, or a constructor wishing to learn more about my “crud-free” approach to puzzlemaking, is welcome to contact me through my website www.StanXwords.com. For today’s song of the day, here’s “Anything Goes” by Cole PORTER: What did you think? Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. Emily Cox and Henry Rathvon offer us a challenging cryptic crossword puzzle.Read more… A place for solvers to discuss and ask questions about the “A Little Variety” suite of puzzles.Read more… Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… David Poole has something up his sleeve.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Food   Cooking Techniques: Frosting a Cake. Make sure every bite of cake includes an even amount of frosting.              
Foreign   Pushing for a Law Against Domestic Violence in China. Advertisement Last Thanksgiving, Kim Lee came down the stairs in her apartment in Beijing to see her former husband, Li Yang, standing in the living room. “I screamed,” she said. The couple had divorced nine months earlier in a blaze of publicity, after Mr. Li, the celebrity founder of Crazy English, a language school they ran together, admitted to physically abusing his American wife. Chinese women rarely publicize violence at the hands of their partners, but Ms. Lee posted images of her injuries online. Her forthrightness won her praise from women’s advocates as well as many ordinary Chinese, though some reacted with fury at how she lifted the lid on a sensitive topic. Ms. Lee’s experiences since then, however, have bolstered activists’ arguments that China is in urgent need of a national law on domestic violence. In interviews, Ms. Lee, a teacher, said that after they separated in 2011, Mr. Li more than once threatened her in text messages. “For our kids, you’d better pay attention to your safety!!!” read one message, she said. Another: “You need me to beat you again to make you better, you greedy, American psycho.” Mr. Li was “very busy” and would not respond to a detailed question list or otherwise comment, said his assistant, Anson Ke. So on her divorce, Ms. Lee applied for, and was granted, a protection order, the first reported in Beijing. The court order was for only three months and not detailed, simply warning Mr. Li that he would be arrested if he resorted to violence against her again. “But it did in fact protect me,” Ms. Lee said in an interview. Once he threatened to beat her to death, she reminded him that he could go to jail and he backed off, she said. “What it does is take out that painful step of having to get evidence” of an attack, which includes getting a hospital report and persuading the police to file a report, something difficult to do. “I just report the violence, and he’s dealt with,” she said. Last May, however, the order expired. And since then, despite multiple applications to the court, she has been unable to secure another. Activists say her situation illustrates why laws are needed that would define domestic violence, nixing the common argument that it is a “private matter,” raising the problem in the public eye, giving courts, the police, hospitals and other social organizations a clear legal mandate to assist victims, and standardizing important measures like protection orders. Some, issued elsewhere in the country, have ordered the perpetrator to keep a distance from the victim, but the approach is piecemeal. Currently, the Marriage Law and the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Interests of Women outlaw domestic violence, but they are vague, activists say. “There are too many systemic problems, too many loopholes. It’s just too easy to do it,” said Feng Yuan, a leading feminist and a founder of the Anti-Domestic Violence Network, which has campaigned for a comprehensive law for 15 years. Figures of the scale of the problem vary. Last year, Tan Lin, an official at the All-China Women’s Federation, said that 25 percent of women experienced violence in their marriage. But a study last year by Partners for Prevention, a United Nations program, found that 52 percent of about 1,000 Chinese men told researchers that they had been violent toward a woman. And protection orders, considered a crucial method of combating domestic violence worldwide, are still experimental in China. Courts try to keep them quiet, concerned that without the authority of a law and an established system of practical enforcement, they may fail, and the court may lose face, feminists say. Only recently did activists discover that another order was issued in Beijing several months before Ms. Lee’s. “Ms. Lee’s problems show that China needs to formalize protection orders,” said Ms. Feng. Because when it comes to violent partners issuing threats, “there is no law that says that judges must solve this problem.” “The courts are afraid of being overrun by applicants and of being unable to enforce the orders and therefore becoming a mockery, with the police not cooperating,” she said. In 2012, the National People’s Congress took proposals for a law defining and outlawing domestic violence into its legislative program. Every year, there have been a few deputies who try to push it forward. But after 15 years of lobbying, activists like Ms. Feng believe it’s still very low on the government’s agenda. “A lot of people trivialize the problem, but it’s not a trivial thing,” Ms. Feng said. Many countries, including in Asia, have such a law, making China a laggard. In China, action is “too slow,” she said. “It’s just too, too slow!” This year, feminists are gearing up to lobby again at the congress, which convenes next week. In 2003, the network submitted a draft law. Later, the All-China Women’s Federation, a government body, also submitted one. Ms. Feng does not expect a law this year. Maybe next year, if things move fast, she said. And 2015 is the 20th anniversary of the United Nations’ Fourth World Conference on Women, a landmark event held in Beijing that declared: “Women’s rights are human rights.” Despite the sense of urgency she and other women’s advocates feel, she says it’s important to get a good law, even if it takes time. “The question now is, How will they draft it? What are their priorities?” Ms. Feng said. Would, for example, protection orders be part of it? With the legislative process in China largely a black box, feminists can only hope to exert indirect influence. “We don’t have formal lobbyists like in the United States,” Ms. Feng said. She singled out three groups of people to approach: state leaders, heads of departments involved in drafting laws, and researchers and expert advisers. As a civil society organization, the network lacks access to the first group and only rarely can influence the second, but it can reach the third. The women’s federation has access to the first two; its leader, Shen Yueyue, is also a state leader. It comes down to a question of political will, said Ms. Feng. “I’d say there are just a handful of groups willing to pursue this issue.” Meanwhile, absent court protection and a law spelling out the crime, Ms. Lee worries. “He entered my home in the middle of the night,” she said. “I felt this was enough to warrant another application, since he obviously keeps threatening, scaring and trying to pressure me.” Her latest application was turned down on Dec. 23. She says she will keep trying. Sinosphere, the China blog of The New York Times, delivers intimate, authoritative coverage of the planet's most populous nation and its relationship with the rest of the world. Drawing on timely, engaging dispatches from The Times’ distinguished team of China correspondents, this blog brings readers into the debates and discussions taking place inside a fast-changing country and details the cultural, economic and political developments shaping the lives of 1.3 billion people. Some called on the government to send troops to the Middle East in retaliation to an Islamic State killing, while others cautioned that such a move could invite terrorism at home.Read more… The dissidents had won official recognition as refugees and had been previously detained in China for their activism, Chris Buckley reports.Read more… Human rights advocates listened with a mixture of incredulity and derision to the delegation’s responses on interrogation, Nick Cumming-Bruce reports. Read more… In the Philippines for an Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit, President Obama urged China to halt military activities on the disputed islands, Michael D. Shear reports. Read more… The dead, including women and children, were said to have been involved in a knife attack in September that left 50 people dead at a mine near the Kyrgyzstan border, Javier C. Hernández reports. Read more… Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Movies   Clip: 'Lone Survivor'. A scene from the film, directed by Peter Berg, with sound editing by Wylie Stateman.          
Science   Test Is Improved Predictor of Fetal Disorders Sign Up for the Running Email. Advertisement A test that analyzes fetal DNA found in a pregnant woman’s blood proved much more accurate in screening for Down syndrome and another chromosomal disorder than the now-standard blood test, a new study has found. The promising results may change how prenatal screening for genetic diseases is done, though the test is costly and generally not yet covered by insurance for women at low risk. The study, published on Wednesday in The New England Journal of Medicine, found that the fetal DNA test was 10 times better in predicting cases of Down syndrome than the standard blood test and ultrasound screening, and five times better in predicting the other disorder, Trisomy 18. It also greatly reduced the number of false-positive results. It could prevent many women who would otherwise get the standard blood test from needing to confirm positive results with invasive tests like amniocentesis or chorionic villus sampling, which can be stressful, much more costly and carry small risks of miscarriage. “Nine out of 10 women who are currently being referred for further testing would not need invasive tests,” said the lead author of the study, Dr. Diana Bianchi, the executive director of the Mother Infant Research Institute at Tufts Medical Center’s Floating Hospital for Children. A positive result on the DNA screening would still need to be confirmed with invasive tests, because in more than half the cases in which the newer test predicted a disorder, there was no chromosomal abnormality. But a negative result would provide confidence that these two major chromosomal disorders are absent. “It’s a better mousetrap, there’s no doubt about that,” said Dr. Michael Greene, director of obstetrics at Massachusetts General Hospital and co-author of an editorial about the study. “If the test is normal, the overwhelming probability is that your fetus is normal. There will be far fewer women who will be encouraged to have invasive testing, and, as a result, far fewer miscarriages.” The screen analyzes blood from women who are at least 10 weeks pregnant. At that point, about 10 percent of DNA in the blood will be fetal DNA from the placenta, Dr. Bianchi said. Dr. Bianchi is a paid advisory board member for Illumina, one of the laboratories that performs the test, which is known as the cell-free DNA test because the fetal DNA floats freely in the mother’s blood, not inside a cell. Illumina, which is based in San Diego, financed the study. Dr. Greene, an associate editor at The New England Journal of Medicine, said that the study “would sort of be purer from an academic perspective if somebody else pays for it,” but that companies are “the ones that are going to finance the research to get it to where it’s marketable.” He added, “We can’t have our cake and eat it too.” He said the journal had rejected other cell-free DNA studies, but considered this one well done. Experts said they expected the test would ultimately be offered to all pregnant women, but noted limitations. The test, costing $500 to $2,000, is not now typically covered by insurance for women at low risk for having babies with chromosomal abnormalities. Nor is it regulated by the Food and Drug Administration, because it is considered “laboratory developed,” to be used by the lab that created them and not sold to other labs or companies, Dr. Greene said. The test also appears to work inconsistently in very obese women. And it screens only for major chromosomal disorders and some sex-linked diseases. “This is a very good screening test for what it’s designed to screen for,” said Dr. Ignatia B. Van den Veyver, a prenatal geneticist at Baylor College of Medicine. But, she added, “we’re concerned that if women stop there, they miss the opportunity to have a diagnostic test like amnio that can detect other chromosomal abnormalities.” For now, this new technology, which became available in 2011, is primarily used for women deemed more likely to have babies with abnormalities because they are age 35 or older or have other risk factors. At least four companies offer the tests. Medical organizations have not recommended them for other women because of a lack of data showing they work in the general population. The new study, which involved 1,914 pregnant women from diverse backgrounds at 21 medical sites around the country, is the first large study to evaluate the cell-free DNA screen in average American women. Most women in the study were younger than 30, had conceived naturally, and were pregnant with their first child. Dr. Deborah A. Driscoll, a professor of obstetrics and gynecology at the University of Pennsylvania, who was not involved in the research, said that given this new evidence, “this should be a test that we can offer women universally.” The women received standard screening from their doctors, a blood test that identifies proteins or other biological markers associated with chromosomal disorders. Some also got ultrasounds examining the fetus’s neck for fluid associated with Down syndrome. Separately, and without knowing the results of the standard tests, technicians at the Illumina lab screened samples of the women’s blood for three copies of chromosomes instead of the normal two, seeking to identify chromosomes for Down syndrome, and for Trisomies 18 and 13, often fatal disorders. Researchers later checked whether babies were born with or without these conditions. In the study, the rate of false positives for Down syndrome was 0.3 percent with the cell-free DNA screening, while the rate for standard screening was 3.6 percent, 12 times higher. The false-positive rate for Trisomy 18 was 0.2 percent with the DNA screening; the rate with standard screening was three times that. Not everyone received standard screens for Trisomy 13, so complete comparisons could not be made. The DNA screen was correct in predicting Down syndrome 45.5 percent of the time, while the rate for standard screens was 4.2 percent. The DNA screen accurately predicted babies with Trisomy 18 almost 41 percent of the time, five times better than standard screening, whose rate was 8 percent. The cell-free DNA screen worked equally well in first, second or third trimesters, and in high- and low-risk women.” Since positive tests are often wrong, women should get positive findings verified with amniocentesis or C.V.S., experts aid. “The greatest risk is that the test will be oversold or over-interpreted and that women won’t take the step of an invasive diagnostic procedure before they do something irreversible like terminate a pregnancy,” Dr. Greene said. In the study, one of the five fetuses with Down syndrome was aborted, one of two with Trisomy 18 was stillborn, and the sole fetus with Trisomy 13 died in utero. The other five chromosomally abnormal babies were born alive. Jennifer Fontaine, 29, of Groveland, Mass., was not in the study, but chose cell-free DNA screening last year after standard screening showed an elevated risk of Trisomy 18 in her fetus. She was offered amniocentesis, but she said, “I wanted the noninvasive procedure.” Her DNA screen was negative for Trisomy 18, and her daughter, Morgan, was born healthy. Andrew Pollack contributed reporting. A version of this article appears in print on 02/27/2014, on page A17 of the NewYork edition with the headline: New DNA Test Better at Predicting Two Disorders in Babies, a Study Finds. Your health questions answered by Times journalists and experts. Your Questions | All » Get Well's Running email for practical tips, expert advice, exclusive content and a bit of motivation delivered to your inbox every week to help you on your running journey. Coming soon. How much do you know about the amazing things that go on in your gut? Take our quiz to find out about the creepy, crawly critters living in your home. What surface is the most friendly to the flu virus? Where’s the best place to stand when you’re talking to a sick person? How does sleep affect health, relationships and well-being? The “Reading the Mind in the Eyes Test” measures ability to understand others’ emotional states. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   DeRozan’s Late Run Leads Raptors Over the Cavaliers. Advertisement Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSFEB. 25, 2014 DeMar DeRozan scored 16 of his 33 points in the fourth quarter, and the visiting Toronto Raptors won for the sixth time in seven games, defeating the injury-riddled Cleveland Cavaliers, 99-93, on Tuesday night. Terrence Ross hit a 3-pointer with 3 minutes 2 seconds left to put Toronto ahead by a point. DeRozan dunked on a baseline drive and added two free throws to give the Raptors a 94-91 lead with 1:23 remaining. He hit three more free throws in the final 27 seconds to put away the game. Kyrie Irving had 25 points and 9 assists for the Cavaliers. He played 45 minutes, including the entire second half, because of Cleveland’s depleted roster. The Cavaliers played without center Anderson Varejao (back) and guards Dion Waiters (knee) and C. J. Miles (ankle). BULLS 107, HAWKS 103 Mike Dunleavy scored 22 points, Joakim Noah had 20 points and 12 rebounds, and visiting Chicago held off Atlanta. Carlos Boozer had 17 points and 11 rebounds for the Bulls, and Kirk Hinrich scored 14 points, including six free throws in the final 44 seconds. The Bulls have won six of seven. Advertisement The Bulls led most of the second half but never pushed the advantage to double figures, and DeMarre Carroll sank a 3-pointer with 1:03 remaining to give Atlanta a 103-101 lead. But with 43.2 seconds left, officials reviewed and confirmed a questionable foul called on Carroll during a 3-point attempt by Hinrich. He made three free throws to put Chicago in front. WIZARDS 115, MAGIC 106 John Wall scored 27 points and Trevor Ariza added 22 to lead host Washington to its fourth straight win. Ariza hit all five of his 3-point attempts for the Wizards, who made 10 of 16 3-pointers. Marcin Gortat added 21 points and 10 rebounds. The Wizards, playing without Nene, who sprained a knee ligament on Sunday, moved to one game above .500. Victor Oladipo scored 26 points for the Magic, who lost their 16th consecutive road game. PACERS 118, LAKERS 98 Paul George scored 12 of his 20 points in the third quarter, Evan Turner had 13 points in his Pacers’ debut, and Indiana won at home. Kent Bazemore finished with a career-high 23 points and Jodie Meeks added 15 for the Lakers, who have the worst record in the West. The Lakers kept the game close for a time, trailing by 59-58 early in the third. But George scored 10 points in a decisive 14-5 spurt that gave Indiana an 80-68 lead with 2:58 left in the period. T’WOLVES 110, SUNS 101 Kevin Love had 33 points and 13 rebounds, and Minnesota rallied in the fourth quarter to win at Phoenix. Markieff Morris had 24 for the Suns. Advertisement BLAZERS 100, NUGGETS 95 J. J. Hickson had 25 rebounds and 16 points for Denver, but it was not enough as visiting Portland won behind Damian Lillard’s 31 points. A version of this article appears in print on February 26, 2014, on page B12 of the New York edition with the headline: DeRozan’s Late Run Leads Raptors Over the Cavaliers. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Travel   Lego Pieces Together a New Act. Advertisement While the thought of 3 million Legos may have parents instinctively rubbing the soles of their feet, executives at the Legoland park in Carlsbad, Calif., are smiling. They’ve used as many plastic pieces to create the Lego Movie Experience, a new attraction at the park that capitalizes on the recent success of Warner Brothers’ “The Lego Movie,” which has topped box office sales in its first two weekends and is quickly approaching the $200 million mark in domestic sales, according to Box Office Mojo. With assistance from filmmakers, the park’s master model builder team has recreated Middle Zealand, the Old West, Cloud Cuckooland, the Octane Tower and more than a thousand other models that inspired the story of the animated movie, in which Emmet, an average Lego figure, is mistakenly drafted to help save the world from an evil tyrant. The models, built using 91 new, rare, discontinued and current Lego sets, took more than 2,000 hours to assemble at Warner Brothers Studios in Burbank and another six weeks to reassemble in the park. The walk-through attraction also features a soundstage broadcasting interviews with actors from the movie, including Will Ferrell, Elizabeth Banks, Liam Neeson and Morgan Freeman, along with clips from the film. Costumed characters from the movie also roam the area to take pictures with guests. Sets to build at home are sure to be on sale nearby. In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
U.S.   Views on Voting and the Political Parties. Advertisement Advertisement FEB. 26, 2014 Related Article How do the Republicans and the Democrats differ? How are they similar? The New York Times and CBS News asked Americans for their views on various issues, their attitudes toward the parties and their opinion of a number of possible presidential candidates. From Feb. 19 to 23, 1,644 adults were polled by telephone. The margin of sampling error is plus or minus three percentage points. The possible error is larger for subgroups; for example, it is plus or minus six points for all Republicans and plus or minus nine points for Democrats under 45. Results are not shown for Republican liberals or Democratic conservatives because there are not enough of those respondents to examine their views separately. * Based on registered voters only.
Business   Turn Up the Music. Advertisement By Martin Ashwood-Smith Feb 28, 2014 The New York Times Crossword is available through subscription only. FRIDAY’S PUZZLE — Today’s puzzle from Martin Ashwood-Smith may be themeless, but it still has a fair number of references to music. We have HIGH NOTES soaring at the opera with 23 Across, the Hungarian composer known as ABBE Liszt at 43 Across and the pop singer AARON CARTER at 27 Down. It’s an all-out random grab bag of musical styles. There’s even a clue about a FLAUTIST. That particular musician, honored with a spot at 28 Down, is Sir James Galway, and it is noteworthy that his name is the second occurrence of the word “Galway” today. The other comes at 1 Down, with the clue “From Galway, maybe” for IRISH. This puzzle won me over, as the good ones always do, with smart clues. There’s QED for “Last thing seen by a proofreader” and “Text with Numbers” for TORAH. But my favorite had to be “Carlito’s way,” breaking out of the Italian with VIA. The toughest and most rewarding parts of the grid were the daunting 15-letter answers in the middle, and Martin, our constructor, has something to say about that. Who needs indie puzzles with their fancy new phrases and risqué words, when you can get a delightful disease-oriented 15-letter entry like MALARIA PARASITE in one of my New York Times crosswords? All kidding aside, I was hesitant about sending this puzzle to Will, precisely because of this 15-letter entry. Fortunately (for me), Will didn’t seem to have a problem with it, and I hope most solvers feel the same way! For today’s video, a clip of 1972 hit “Back Stabbers” by The OJAYS: What did you think? Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. Emily Cox and Henry Rathvon offer us a challenging cryptic crossword puzzle.Read more… A place for solvers to discuss and ask questions about the “A Little Variety” suite of puzzles.Read more… Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… David Poole has something up his sleeve.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Education   The Tenure Pipeline at Harvard Business School Harvard Case Study: Gender Equity. Advertisement Advertisement Harvard Business School says it wants to improve the gender balance among faculty members, but it is far from that goal without extensive hiring. FEB. 27, 2014 An aggressive program intended to boost female success brought improvements, but also resentment and uncertainty. Related story: Harvard Business School Case Study: Gender Equity
Foreign   Questioning a Rising Star's Exoneration. Advertisement Advertisement By MANU JOSEPHFEB. 27, 2014 NEW DELHI — A “clean chit,” in most of the English-speaking world, may bring to mind a blank piece of paper of inexplicable purpose. But in India it very clearly means the exoneration of a public figure by an investigating agency. Probably the most famous “clean chit” was issued last year by a special investigation team to Narendra Modi, clearing the way for the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party to nominate him — days before the advent of an inauspicious period in the Hindu calendar — as its prime ministerial candidate for the general elections due this summer. The team, appointed by the Supreme Court, had investigated the allegations that Mr. Modi was complicit in the communal riots of 2002 in the western state of Gujarat, in which more than a thousand people were killed. He was then, as he is now, the state’s chief minister. The manner in which the team and its chief, R.K. Raghavan, a retired police officer, conducted the investigation has been contentious. Now, a book by the journalist Manoj Mitta, “The Fiction of Fact-Finding,” accuses Mr. Raghavan of going to great lengths to shield Mr. Modi and of ignoring a wide spectrum of disturbing circumstantial evidence. One of the intriguing revelations of the book is the approximate time when Mr. Modi, according to his own statement to the investigation team, learned of one of the worst massacres in his state. On the morning of Feb. 28, 2002, in Ahmedabad, Gujarat’s largest city, a Hindu mob began to gather around Gulbarg Society, an affluent, mostly Muslim neighborhood. Fearing for their lives, scores of Muslims took shelter in the home of Ehsan Jafri, a former member of Parliament from the Indian National Congress party. Emboldened by an absence of any substantive police action, a common feature in the first days of the Gujarat riots, the mob began to attack. Even though the buildup and the attack spanned more than six hours and Mr. Jafri called a number of influential people for help, no help arrived. By 3 or 4 p.m., 69 people had died in the assault, including Mr. Jafri, who was hacked to pieces and burned. Advertisement Mr. Modi told the team he only learned of the episode “in the law and order review meeting held in the night.” That was at 8:30 p.m. Mr. Mitta is baffled that the investigation team did not challenge this claim. The Gujarat riots erupted after a horrific episode on the morning of Feb. 27, when a train compartment carrying Hindu pilgrims was burned by a Muslim mob in the town of Godhra. Fifty-eight people perished. Hours later, a low-level government officer, on instructions from his superiors — though it is not yet clear how high the chain went — wrote an unusual letter. It approved the transfer of most of the charred human remains to Jaydeep Patel, then a joint general secretary of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad, or V.H.P., a rightist Hindu organization that would soon be at the center of the attacks against Muslims. The handover was illegal because, by law, only the families of the deceased may take custody of the bodies. Also, not all the bodies had yet been identified. Against the advice of senior police officers, Mr. Modi cleared the transfer of the bodies from Godhra to Ahmedabad, which was already tense and had a history of communal violence. The next day, some of the bodies were carried in a procession by the V.H.P., an event that attracted huge angry mobs that would soon unleash unspeakable violence. Mr. Modi told the investigation team that he did not know the bodies were handed over to the V.H.P., which is actually a sibling of his own party. The two groups are affiliated with the Hindu nationalist group Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, to which Mr. Modi still belongs. Mobile phone records among the court documents point to close coordination between government officials and the V.H.P. in the hours after the burning of the train. Yet Mr. Mitta says the investigation team did not pursue these leads. When I contacted Mr. Raghavan he declined to comment. Since the riots, Mr. Modi’s political power has risen dramatically among the Hindu electorate of Gujarat. In this reward lies, inadvertently, his indictment. A version of this article appears in print on February 27, 2014, in The International New York Times. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Health   Ask Well. Your health questions answered by Tara Parker-Pope and the rest of the team behind the popular Times health blog, Well.          Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics The Killing of Farkhunda Best of Obama's Correspondents' Dinner Speech How Will Obama Spend His Retirement? Erdogan’s March to Autocracy in Turkey The ‘Indecency of Present Overcrowding’ Jacques Pépin: How to Make an Omelet Bill Cunningham | Garden Party Coconut Cluster Granola Welfare and the Politics of Poverty
Home   Art Checks in at a London Hotel. Advertisement Advertisement By STEVEN KURUTZFEB. 26, 2014 Guests who check into Room 134 at the Ace Hotel London Shoreditch will find one wall covered with a color photograph by Richard Evans of autumnal countryside. In Room 113, Jonathan Barnbrook has created a large-scale piece inspired by neoclassical Victorian typography, above, while the walls of Suites 533 and 534 are hung with Justine Ashbee’s woven textiles in simple geometric patterns. The three artists, and nearly 100 others, were commissioned by the hotel to create pieces for each of the guest rooms and the public spaces. The work ranges from typography and photography to painting and street art, and will no doubt further the reputation of Ace hotels as trendy hangouts for the MacBook-toting urban creative class. It may also bring some positive coverage for the East London outpost. Months after it opened last September, a founder of the boutique hotel chain, Alex Calderwood, was found dead in one of the rooms. Information: acehotel.com/london. A version of this article appears in print on February 27, 2014, on page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: Art Checks in at a London Hotel. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Movies   Anatomy of a Scene. Film directors walk viewers through one scene of their movies, showing the magic, motives and the mistakes from behind the camera.          Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics The Killing of Farkhunda Best of Obama's Correspondents' Dinner Speech How Will Obama Spend His Retirement? Erdogan’s March to Autocracy in Turkey The ‘Indecency of Present Overcrowding’ Jacques Pépin: How to Make an Omelet Bill Cunningham | Garden Party Coconut Cluster Granola Welfare and the Politics of Poverty
Science   Ask Well: Medicines for Motion Sickness Sign Up for the Running Email. Advertisement A look at the drugs — some used by astronauts — that can relieve car, sea and space nausea. Reader Question • 608 votes It’s not a new medicine, but Dr. John P. Carey of Johns Hopkins University often recommends the scopolamine patch to his patients. The patch, sold under the brand name Transderm Scop, requires a prescription, and works by blocking brain signals that cause queasiness. The patch is placed behind the ear, where it slowly releases medication into the blood. This slow release helps minimize side effects, which can include drowsiness and dry mouth and other problems. NASA astronauts use the same medication, but because they need the drug to work at warp speed, they take it orally, as a pill. NASA is developing a nasal-spray version of the drug as well. Antihistamines can also be effective in curbing motion sickness. Common drugs in this class include dimenhydrinate (known as Dramamine) and meclizine (known as Bonine). Both are available over the counter. A prescription antihistamine favored by astronauts is promethazine (sold under such brands as Phenergan, Phenadoz and Promethegan), commonly given by injection for rapid relief of symptoms. In fact, it was an allergist who in 1947 discovered that Dramamine was effective against motion sickness. When he used the drug to treat a patient with hives, she was also cured of chronic motion sickness. The doctor then began a program called Operation Seasickness. He convinced the United States Army to test the effects of Dramamine on soldiers sailing to Germany aboard the transport ship General Ballou. Of the 389 soldiers who took the drug, 372 found their motion sickness disappear. But it’s important to keep in mind that Dramamine and Bonine are known to cause drowsiness, dry mouth and other side effects. Do you have a health question? Submit your question to Ask Well. Your health questions answered by Times journalists and experts. Your Questions | All » Get Well's Running email for practical tips, expert advice, exclusive content and a bit of motivation delivered to your inbox every week to help you on your running journey. Coming soon. How much do you know about the amazing things that go on in your gut? Take our quiz to find out about the creepy, crawly critters living in your home. What surface is the most friendly to the flu virus? Where’s the best place to stand when you’re talking to a sick person? How does sleep affect health, relationships and well-being? The “Reading the Mind in the Eyes Test” measures ability to understand others’ emotional states. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   Super Rugby Expands Into Argentina. Advertisement Advertisement By EMMA STONEYFEB. 26, 2014 WELLINGTON, New Zealand — Starting in 2016, Argentina will get what it wanted: its own Super Rugby franchise, and a tighter bond with the heavyweight rugby nations in the Southern Hemisphere. Sanzar, the organization that runs the Rugby Championship competition and Super Rugby, announced last Thursday that it would be expanding from 15 to 17 teams, adding its first in South America. South Africa has also been guaranteed a sixth team, likely to be the Southern Kings, who were involved in Super Rugby in 2013 but lost out to the Lions for inclusion this year. Currently there are five franchises each in South Africa, New Zealand and Australia, the countries that make up Sanzar. The expansion of Super Rugby into Argentina follows its admittance into the well-established Tri-Nations competition, which was relabeled the Rugby Championship when the Pumas joined the annual Sanzar tournament in 2012. The former Pumas halfback Agustin Pichot was the driving force behind getting Argentina into the Rugby Championship and has been in the forefront of negotiations for Super Rugby inclusion, also. Advertisement The Sanzar chief Greg Peters said it was the logical step to take. “It’s a natural extension from their involvement in the Rugby Championship,” he said. “It makes logical strategic sense to include them in both of the Sanzar competitions.” The exact format of the new competition has yet to be confirmed, although a “preferred model” has been submitted for approval to South Africa, New Zealand and Australia. The expansion has not been universally accepted, however. Some coaches and players, who already travel huge distances for games, are worried that adding Argentina to the mix will affect their workload and performance. But the expansion will certainly open up greater opportunities for Argentina’s players and raise the standard of rugby played in that country — and played by the Pumas. Argentina’s players now have to leave their home country to secure professional contracts. The majority play in France and Britain. Only a few have played Super Rugby. Two Pumas, Tomás Leonardi and Nicolás Vergallo, played for the Southern Kings last year, while in 2009 Juan Martín Hernández signed with the Sharks, another South African franchise, but a back injury kept him out of Super Rugby in 2010. This year, Pumas lock Manuel Carizza is playing for the Stormers in South Africa, while Matias Diaz is the first Argentinean to play in New Zealand after signing a deal with the Highlanders. “A professional franchise in Argentina would be a dream come true for many of us — mainly from the point of view of the success of the national team,” said Carizza, who has played 41 tests for Argentina and spent nine years in France at the Top 14 clubs Biarritz and Racing Metro before moving to South Africa. “Personally, I am very happy here and still want to establish myself in the Stormers team and Super Rugby. But, with the bigger picture in mind, a Super Rugby franchise back home would mean a lot for our rugby.” Advertisement Playing in Super Rugby would also mean there are no clashes between their club commitments and international rugby. Argentines who are selected for the Pumas in the Rugby Championship are unavailable for their clubs at the start of the Top 14, English Premiership or Pro 12 Celtic League season, and team owners are becoming increasingly unhappy about that. It is one of the reasons Carizza headed to South Africa. “Racing Metro didn’t want to keep me, due to my international commitments,” he said. “I went back home for the Rugby Championship with the intention of looking for a new contract after the tournament. The Stormers were the first Super Rugby franchise to look at me, and I didn’t have to think twice about signing with them.” Diaz is a young prop embarking on professional rugby for the first time. He turned down offers from clubs in Europe to make the move to the Highlanders after making his Pumas debut last year. “I’m happy with the decision I made to put my professional career first before the money, because I had other offers from clubs that offered me more money,” said the 21-year-old, who played for Teqüe, a club in Mendoza, Argentina. “But I’ve made the best decision because I’m improving a lot as a rugby player here. I believe Super Rugby is the best place to start my professional career. It’s the highest standard you can get in rugby.” Enticing players like Diaz and Carizza, along with those whose French contracts are expiring in 2015, to return to Argentina for Super Rugby will be crucial if the new team is to be competitive. But Peters does not expect to see the entire Pumas national team suiting up in the Argentine franchise’s Super Rugby jerseys. “I don’t think that’s either likely or realistic,” he said. “There will still be players who are playing in Europe who play for the Pumas. Carizza, though, believes many Argentines will be eager to play on home soil. “I think all of our players would love to play Super Rugby,” said the lock, who made his Super Rugby debut last weekend. “For the last 15 years, the top Pumas players have gone to France because it’s easier and there’s always been a history of our players playing professional rugby in Europe. Advertisement “Now with Argentina playing in the Rugby Championship, it would make it easier or more viable for our top players to also play Super Rugby and, at the same time, represent their national team.” Diaz, who also made his Super Rugby debut over the weekend, hopes that if he is successful at the Highlanders, his countrymen will be further encouraged to play Super Rugby. “I know people are watching me and what I’m doing,” said Diaz, who was inspired to play rugby when the Pumas finished third at the 2007 Rugby World Cup. “I’m pleased because I’m working really hard to be a good example for anyone who wants to follow my path. “I don’t feel pressure because I’m the first from Argentina to play in New Zealand. I put pressure on myself to give my best for my team. I realize that this is one opportunity in life and I need to do my best.” A version of this article appears in print on February 27, 2014, in The International New York Times. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Technology   Peering Into Tech’s Monuments of Innovation. Facebook’s headquarters in Menlo Park, Calif., is a cluster of 11 buildings enclosing a Disney-like pedestrian square and a two-way promenade. Short meetings take place on foot. CreditJim Wilson/The New York Times 1 of 12 The increasing appeal of India, now the world’s fastest growing major economy, was underscored in recent days.
Travel   New Butler Services Buff Luxury Hotels. Advertisement In the race for an increasingly personalized luxury hotel experience, the butler may be the ultimate amenity. Since January, the new Langham, Chicago has employed a rotating staff of eight dedicated butlers for its three club floors. Carlos Carrera, the director of butler services for the hotel, said that the new generation of butlers specializes in services like unpacking and pressing and arranging daily details like dinner reservations and child care. At the Langham, the service costs an extra $75 per person daily for those on the club floors, where rooms are $470 to $1,500 per night. The hotel’s Infinity and Regent Suites, which go for $6,000 a night, include 24-hour butler service. At the St. Regis Hotels, the butler has morphed into a personal assistant. In a new initiative at the St. Regis Bal Harbour Resort in Florida, guests can request to have their closets stocked with clothing and accessories to try from Neiman Marcus. The butler then serves as a kind of personal shopper. “Our butlers today are more Pepper Potts in ‘Iron Man’ than Alfred Pennyworth in ‘Batman,’ ” said Anthony Ingham, the vice president of North American brand management for St. Regis Hotels and Resorts. About 40 percent of the butlers at St. Regis properties are women, he said. And, in a nod to a connected world, guests and butlers can communicate before, during and after a stay via eButler, the hotel’s dedicated online platform. Charles MacPherson, the owner of an eponymous academy for butlers and household managers and whose new book, “The Butler Speaks,” offers etiquette and entertaining tips, said he believes that even crusty Mr. Carson, the character on the series “Downton Abbey,” would approve of eButlers. “In person or electronically, the butler’s job is to personalize the guest experience and build a relationship of trust,” he said. A version of this article appears in print on 03/02/2014, on page TR3 of the NewYork edition with the headline: New Butler Services Buff Luxury Hotels. In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
U.S.   Discussions of Arizona Governor’s Veto. Reaction to Gov. Jan Brewer’s veto of a bill that would have allowed refusal of service to gay men and lesbians.          
Business   High Tech. Advertisement By Ian Livengood & J.A.S.A. Crossword Class Mar 1, 2014 The New York Times Crossword is available through subscription only. SATURDAY’S PUZZLE— This Saturday puzzle was a collaborative effort constructed by Ian Livengood and the crossword class at the J.A.S.A. (or Jewish Association Serving the Aging). Down below, Ian talks a bit about what the class does and what their creative process is like. What makes this puzzle stand out are the many technology-themed clues and answers. It gets started with a clue reading “Samsung Galaxy Note rival,” referring to the IPAD AIR, which the tech-savvy can use to RETWEET stories about GOOGLE GLASS. I particularly enjoyed the clue for that last one, which plays off the multiple meanings of the word bridge. Other high-tech elements at play include a radar SENSOR, an ADWARE detector and a nod to the carrier T MOBILE. Even the Hubble telescope gets a shout-out. Alongside all these, we have an example of texting shorthand that, to the untrained eye, looks like imparsable jibberish: KTHXBYE for “curt chat closing” at 18 Across. Its unusual combination of letters makes it tricky to spot. The crossers helped me fill in some of the blanks, but I started to second-guess myself when faced with the alien-looking “K–X–YE.” It makes you realize that, out of context, these abbreviations look like another language. Which is not to say that this puzzle has anything against foreign languages. From BIENVENUE to ARTE to ACH (nicht verdammt!), this puzzle is anything but monolingual. Even some of the English clues have a distinctly a worldly feel: Turkish LIRA, PAD THAI, double-decker buses, Italian PERONI, you name it. Now let’s hear from Ian: How does the J.A.S.A. crossword class work? Well, I suggested a few seed entries for the themeless puzzle — GOOGLE GLASS and IPAD AIR — and designed a conservative 72-word grid around ’em. The class then collaborated on the fill and clues. With the exception of ATAVIST (which isn’t even that bad), all the 7+ letter entries are either good to great, I think. A lot of our clues made the cut, too. I bet this puzzle plays easy if you know your tech products and almost certainly got slotted for a Saturday based on K THX BYE. Enjoy! For today’s clip, here’s Los Lobos’ rendition of the Mexican folk song, LA BAMBA:  What did you think? Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. Emily Cox and Henry Rathvon offer us a challenging cryptic crossword puzzle.Read more… A place for solvers to discuss and ask questions about the “A Little Variety” suite of puzzles.Read more… Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… David Poole has something up his sleeve.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Food   Melissa Clark. The author and cook Melissa Clark takes you into her kitchen to show you how easy it can be to make exquisite and delicious meals.          Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics The Killing of Farkhunda This Week’s Movies | May 6, 2016 Erdogan’s March to Autocracy in Turkey Bill Cunningham | Garden Party Best of Obama's Correspondents' Dinner Speech So You Want to Do a Handstand? Coconut Cluster Granola Cruz Responds to Trump’s Paternal Dig How Will Obama Spend His Retirement?
Foreign   Image of the Day: February 28. Advertisement   India’s national elections began April 7 and will continue on nine separate dates until May 12, with results expected to be announced on May 16. The vote is the world’s largest, with 814 million eligible voters set to choose 543 members of the lower house of Parliament. The other two seats will be appointed by the president. This election is widely considered to be India’s most consequential since 1977. India Ink will be moving to the World page of The New York Times. Read more… A memorial ceremony at the Imphal War Cemetery in Manipur to honor the soldiers who died during World War II.Read more… The newly elected prime minister reaches out to the public in a blog post about his first 30 days in office.Read more… Newborns whose mothers are unable to breastfeed are given stored breast milk to protect them from potentially life-threatening infection.Read more… In the final stage of a long decline, Hindustan Motors announced in May that it would suspend production of the Ambassador, a car that was once synonymous with style and status.Read more… This report on India from the journalists of The New York Times and a pool of talented writers in India and beyond provides unbiased, authoritative reporting on the country and its place in the world. India Ink also strives to be a virtual meeting point for discussion of this complex, fast-changing democracy – its politics, economy, culture and everyday life. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Health   The Weekly Health Quiz. Advertisement Advertisement In the news: male breast cancer, hepatitis C and antifreeze. Test your knowledge of this week’s health news. FEB. 27, 2014 Toby Bilanow/The New York Times
Movies   Think Back. From politics, international affairs, sports and even the Oscars, Sam Tanenhaus adds historical perspective to contemporary events with incisive commentary and archival images.         Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics The Killing of Farkhunda This Week’s Movies | May 6, 2016 Erdogan’s March to Autocracy in Turkey Bill Cunningham | Garden Party Best of Obama's Correspondents' Dinner Speech So You Want to Do a Handstand? Coconut Cluster Granola Cruz Responds to Trump’s Paternal Dig How Will Obama Spend His Retirement?
Science   The Pasta Is Gluten-Free Sign Up for the Running Email. Advertisement   Every so often I like to do a small roundup of gluten-free pasta products, to see if there is anything new and noteworthy on the market. This week was a good time to do it, as I’m in New York staying with my sister Melodie, who is gluten-intolerant. Melodie used to eat a lot of rice pasta until she became concerned with reports about arsenic in rice. It is cold in New York and we are mourning the death of our 95-year-old mother, and this calls for comfort food. So I went shopping for gluten-free pasta that was not made primarily with rice flour, and put my purchases to good use. Those purchases, by the way, were not cheap. The best price I could get (at Whole Foods) for one of the brands I liked the most, Andean Dream Quinoa Spaghetti (when you look closely at the ingredients you’ll see that it is made from a mix of quinoa and brown rice) was $3.50 for an 8-ounce package. Another brand I liked, truRoots Ancient Grain Spaghetti, made from quinoa, amaranth and brown rice, was $4.79 for an 8-ounce package. (I saw the same products at other shops for as much as $5.) I can get regular spaghetti for $1 to $1.69 a pound. So if you are on a budget, the gluten-free pastas I worked with this week will be splurges. I also tried cornmeal fettucine made by Le Veneziane ($3.99 for 8.8 ounces) and thought it was quite good. Brown-rice penne rigate by Delallo was also good, but I found the texture more brittle and stodgy than the other varieties. I think the shape is an important element here. Spaghetti had the best al dente texture of all the shapes, followed by fettucine. Gluten-Free Fettucine With Brussels Sprouts, Lemon and Ricotta: Creamy ricotta and Brussels sprouts add color and texture to this dish. Quinoa Spaghetti With Cauliflower, Almonds, Tomatoes and Chickpeas: Cauliflower is often matched with pasta in Italy; this version is all about texture. Gluten-Free Spaghetti With Baby Broccoli, Mushrooms and Walnuts: The walnuts add texture and flavor to this pasta dish. Gluten-Free Penne With Peas, Ricotta and Tarragon: A simple dish that is sweet with tarragon and a breeze to make. Gluten-Free Spaghetti With Shrimp, Kale and Tomatoes: A robust winter pasta with a spicy kick. Your health questions answered by Times journalists and experts. Your Questions | All » Get Well's Running email for practical tips, expert advice, exclusive content and a bit of motivation delivered to your inbox every week to help you on your running journey. Coming soon. How much do you know about the amazing things that go on in your gut? Take our quiz to find out about the creepy, crawly critters living in your home. What surface is the most friendly to the flu virus? Where’s the best place to stand when you’re talking to a sick person? How does sleep affect health, relationships and well-being? The “Reading the Mind in the Eyes Test” measures ability to understand others’ emotional states. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   Not Just One, but 3 Weapons for Real Madrid. Advertisement Advertisement By ROB HUGHESFEB. 27, 2014 LONDON — How the wheel turns in the Champions League. Real Madrid wore golden orange and struck six goals against Schalke in Germany. Cristiano Ronaldo looked imperious and scored twice. Karim Benzema looked predatory and scored twice. Gareth Bale looked no longer the new boy — and scored twice. And Ronaldo, particularly, might have had more. Madrid might have scored 10. And it is that number — la décima, as it is known — that has obsessed the club ever since May 2002, when Real won its ninth, and last, final in the tournament. Eleven coaching changes and a turnover of more than a billion dollars’ worth of playing talent has ensued since then. Always the quest has been la décima. Always the president of Real Madrid, Florentino Pérez, has justified the spending and the impatience for this title. Based on this year’s form, Bayern Munich would be the one power capable of standing in Real’s way. But in destroying Schalke on Wednesday night, Madrid exorcised some of its demons about playing on German soil. “I’m satisfied,” Carlo Ancelotti, the Italian coach of Real Madrid, said at the postgame news conference, once the 6-1 victory in Gelsenkirchen ended. “That was the perfect game. My players played with togetherness, and they played well. We weren’t thinking of our bad run in Germany, we were thinking about giving absolutely everything to win and resolve this tie as soon as possible.” Advertisement And Ancelotti arched an eyebrow. That is as animated as he gets, this man who has won the Champions League twice as a player and twice as a manager with A.C. Milan. Down the corridor in Gelsenkirchen, where Real had laid bare its record of winning only once in 25 previous Champions League matches in Germany, Bale, the new recruit to this strike force, was asked by reporters how it felt to be in this lineup. He said his earliest memory of the Champions League was watching Zinédine Zidane score against Bayer Leverkusen in the 2002 final. That goal must have impressed countless boys just about to enter their teens, as Bale was at that time. It was a volley struck with startling power and sweetness — a volley with the ball at hip height when the ball approached him across his body from the left. Down in Wales, where Bale was growing up, the sight of that goal was an inspiration and an invitation to work harder than ever on his own skills. To one day join Real Madrid and to be coached by Zidane — who is now Ancelotti’s assistant — rounds out the dream. To then form the attack with Ronaldo and Benzema is beyond his boyhood imagination. “Our attacking trio,” said the master of understatement, Ancelotti, “are very dangerous.” Dangerous? They are devastating. Schalke is a decent side, fourth in the Bundesliga, which we were told last year was the new force that would dominate Europe for years to come. But Schalke is a young side, a vulnerable one and now a chastened one. Advertisement “Cristiano Ronaldo was everywhere,” said Benedikt Höwedes, the Schalke captain at the postgame briefing. “We saw exactly why he’s the world player of the year.” Indeed, Ronaldo was unplayable at times. The four (or was it five?) step-overs he made with bewildering speed and control during the run for his first goal were eclipsed by the gliding, graceful movement of his second. He also struck a post and missed twice. Yet it was the combinations from Ronaldo, Benzema and Bale that blitzed Schalke throughout this match. Reports say that Klaas-Jan Huntelaar’s goal right at the end for Schalke was more than a match for any of the Real strikes. And it was. Huntelaar beat Iker Casillas with a volley in added time that was as perfect in many ways as the Zidane goal of 2002. It was uninhibited and excellent, but a consolation against a majestic opponent that by then was thinking of its next game, Sunday’s Madrid derby against Atlético in the Vicente Calderón Stadium. In the other match, the first leg of Galatasaray versus Chelsea was played to a 1-1 tie in Istanbul on Wednesday. It was a contest built around the intrigue of Gala’s center forward, Didier Drogba, competing against many of the Chelsea teammates with whom he shared the 2012 Champions League title. Drogba is still good and still athletic for a man in his mid-thirties. He has the guile and the know-how but is playing on experience rather than the power that he could once summon. Take sentiment out of it, and what was clear is that the Ivory Coast player is on his last lap. By the time he left the field, to an ovation from the Chelsea bench with 10 minutes left, the game was tied, 1-1. It finished that way, and so now everyone is talking up the return of Drogba to Stamford Bridge, where this contest must be settled. The odds favor the London side. They did what they had to in Turkey, aided and abetted by a gamble by Galatasaray Coach Roberto Mancini. Advertisement Seeking to surprise Chelsea, he fielded two Champions League rookies in Izet Hajrovic, a 22-year-old Bosnian, and Alex Telles, a 21-year-old Brazilian. By the time Hajrovic was taken out half way through the first half, Gala was a goal down. Emmanuel Eboué lost the ball to César Azpilicueta, who combined with Andre Schürrle down the left wing before cutting the ball back into the six-yard box for a comfortable side-footed goal by Fernando Torres. So open was Gala’s defense that Chelsea could have scored more. But once Mancini changed tactics, the balance swung in the other direction, and Galatasaray’s big Cameroon defender, Aurélien Chedjou, equalized following a corner kick. Where was Chelsea’s defense? John Terry and goalkeeper Petr Cech were possibly looking for a threat that wasn’t there — for Drogba — while Chedjou was left unmarked. A version of this article appears in print on February 28, 2014, in The International New York Times. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Travel   Wine on Wheels. Advertisement How often have cyclists wished for a bike basket that could securely hold a bottle of wine and two wineglasses for the duration of their ride? Probably not that often, though with the current proliferation of bike tours taking visitors closer to both nature and alcohol, they may soon be in high demand. It’s with that in mind that Clos du Bois, the winemaker, has partnered with C. Wonder, the bike maker, to create the Clos Cruiser, a basic C. Wonder City Bike model, outfitted with a limited-edition wicker basket with fau -leather loops perfectly sized to steady a bottle of wine and corkscrew, and two fabric pockets made to hold two stemless, shatter-proof, even recyclable Govino wine glasses. To assist the Sonoma County winery with promoting these limited-edition cruisers, the h2hotel, an eco-friendly establishment in nearby Healdsburg, Calif., is offering a special two-night stay package from March 1 through May 31. It includes the use of both the hotel and winery’s Clos Cruisers, a complimentary tasting and picnic at the winery, dinner at the hotel, custom bike maps and a monogrammed wine stopper. (Rates start at $680 for midweek dates, $880 for weekends.) Lucky, perhaps, that the winery is less than five miles from the hotel and the basket holds just one bottle. A version of this article appears in print on 03/09/2014, on page TR3 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Sonoma: Bicycle Built for 2 (Wineglasses). In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
U.S.   Heavy Rains Pound Southern California. A second winter storm this week swept into California, bringing more rain than this drought-hit state has had in months.          
Business   Oscar Double Features. Advertisement Administrivial Alert! There’s still time to register for the American Crossword Puzzle Tournament, which will be held March 7 through March 9 at the Brooklyn Bridge Marriott. Not only that, but spaces are still available for the annual Cru dinner. Click on the links for more details. By Alan Arbesfeld Mar 2, 2014 The New York Times Crossword is available through subscription only. SUNDAY’S PUZZLE — Break out the popcorn and settle into your seats, film buffs, because you’re in for a double feature. Today’s crossword has an Oscar them, just in time for the Academy Awards ceremony. The theme answers concocted by Alan Arbesfeld combine the titles of two films, each of which was nominated for Best Picture in the past. The clues tell you the year in which the films were nominated, but it is up to you to figure out the rest. Take 68 Across as an example: “Part of a line at O’Hare? [2002, 1976]” is a hint for CHICAGO TAXI DRIVER. Get the drift? Even some of the nontheme answers bask in the glow of the silver screen. At 8 Down, PST (for Pacific Standard Time) could have been described in any number of ways, but Alan decided to give it some razzle-dazzle with the clue “the Oscars are awarded on it.” Among the other Hollywood-centric answers we have DISNEY and the director Brian DEPALMA. But film isn’t the only art form covered, as we have a few nods to serious art and literature. For instance, there’s Caravaggio’s “The Sacrifice of ISAAC” and a line from Shakespeare’s Richard III: “A HORSE! My kingdom for a horse!” This was a really fun solve because of its playful theme and its array of really fresh words. To highlight a few, I would mention PINPRICKS, SEAWAYS and MAN ALIVE. I also liked the inclusion of TRADE WAR, though that one took me a while to figure out because I made a mess of the northeast corner. (I had erroneously guessed that “bread holder?” at 40 Across was “basket,” and it fit with all my crossers — at first. WALLET fit the bill much better.) Today’s video clip was inspired by a film that made up one-half of a double-feature theme answer, “Rocky.” What did you think? Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. Emily Cox and Henry Rathvon offer us a challenging cryptic crossword puzzle.Read more… A place for solvers to discuss and ask questions about the “A Little Variety” suite of puzzles.Read more… Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… David Poole has something up his sleeve.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   From 1939, Somerset Maugham’s List of Must-Reads. Advertisement Seventy-five years ago, the Paris edition published a list of books recommended by W. Somerset Maugham, the British novelist, to “help you live more fully.” Here is the top 10:  Poetry in three anthologies: ‘‘The Golden Treasury,” “The Oxford Book of English Verse” and Gerald Bullett’s “The English Galaxy of Shorter Poems.” If you don’t like them, Mr. Maugham said, don’t read them. “Every man is his own best critic. Whatever the learned say about a book, however unanimous they are in their praise of it, unless it interests you it is no business of yours,” he wrote. “That is counsel which I wish the high-school teachers of English in the United States would ponder. I doubt if anything is more responsible for the tons of trash read in America than the common school program of forcing good books upon boys and girls when they don’t want it. They acquire a permanent distaste for good literature. “Who is going to acquire the habit of reading for reading’s sake,” Mr. Maugham wrote, “if he is bidden to read books that bore him?” Mr. Maugham’s list is limited to English books. He said that he would not presume to recommend American books to American readers, though he could hardly believe that any American at all inclined to literature could have missed “Huckleberry Finn” or “Moby Dick,” Walt Whitman’s “Leaves of Grass” or the stories of Edgar Allan Poe.  This blog will share highlights and curiosities from The International Herald Tribune's storied reportage. While we will share coverage of historic events — the world wars, the women's suffrage movement, the great expeditions — we will also republish glimpses of less earth-shaking moments and the ephemera of daily life. The same stories that caught the eyes of our generations of editors now offer us insight into the lives and interests of generations of Trib readers. Read more » From the International Herald Tribune archives: The Vichy government limits menus in 1941.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: A Nigerian officer at war sends a dispatch in 1916. Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: Germany establishes a naval repair shop 500 miles from South America in 1941.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: Prince Victor Napoleon gives a treatise on French politics in 1891.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: British troops attack Irak forces in 1941.Read more… Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   Warriors Soar, Knicks Lag, and Boos Rain Down. Advertisement Advertisement By ZACH SCHONBRUNFEB. 28, 2014 With 8 minutes 26 seconds remaining in the first quarter of Friday’s game against the Golden State Warriors, Knicks Coach Mike Woodson called his first timeout. The Knicks already trailed, 13-6, but it was still early, and there was still a game plan. The tone — for either team — could still be determined. In time, though, the Warriors’ lead swelled to 12 points, then 21, then 27, rising like a departing jet without a moment of turbulence. The Knicks’ body language seemed to worsen with each Golden State 3-pointer (and there were 14 of them). The Knicks snarled when Tyson Chandler was ejected in the fourth quarter. They sulked when time wound down in another runaway defeat. The story of the 126-103 loss was not unlike that of the blowout they suffered a night earlier, against the Miami Heat, except that this was a home game, in front of an increasingly restless and uneasy crowd that showered the Knicks with boos at halftime and after the game. “Fire Woodson” chants circulated. The frustration — from the fans, the players, the coaches, everybody — all but dripped from the bridges traversing the top of the arena. “It’s not a mental thing,” said J. R. Smith, who finished with 17 points. “It’s a heart thing.” Carmelo Anthony, who scored 23 points, had a hard time disagreeing. “When we lose games, it’s embarrassing, like tonight,” Anthony said. “These games are embarrassing. I’m not going against what J. R. said, in terms of the heart, but in my opinion we’re just not very consistent.” Advertisement It did not help matters that the Knicks arrived jet-lagged after the late-night loss in Miami on Thursday to meet the young, fresh-legged Warriors, who are coached by the former Knicks guard Mark Jackson and are one of the N.B.A.’s best offensive teams. The Warriors poured in 38 points in the first quarter, shooting 56 percent, and they were just warming up. Their 126 points were 3 shy of the most the Knicks have allowed all season. The Knicks could have anticipated this, knowing how the Warriors’ All-Star leader, Stephen Curry, revels in performing on the type of stage that a Friday night game at Madison Square Garden offers. In Curry’s last game at the Garden, a year ago, he scored 54 points, with 11 3-pointers, one short of the N.B.A. record. Curry did not light up the Garden as he did that night last February, but he did finish with his fourth career triple-double: 27 points, 11 rebounds and 11 assists in 30 minutes. “It’s one of those arenas with history, and you look forward to playing here,” Curry said. “To play well and impact the game the way I wanted to definitely felt great.” The Knicks struggled for continuity on defense, often looking slow, overmatched or confused — or all of the above — while trying to keep up with Golden State’s prolific shooters. The Warriors scored 15 points in transition, and Woodson deemed the Knicks’ defensive effort in that area to be among the worst of the season. “We just didn’t get back and get matched,” Woodson said. When Golden State finished the first half on a 13-4 run, pushing its lead to 73-52, the crowd at the Garden sent the Knicks into the locker room with a shower of boos. The second half was not much better. If there was ever a lull in Golden State’s offensive attack, it was momentary. In the fourth quarter, Tyson Chandler flashed his frustration by shoving Golden State forward Marreese Speights as the two jogged up the court. The two players needed to be separated and were served with matching technical fouls. A few minutes later, Chandler, jawing at Speights again, earned his second technical and an automatic ejection. (He finished with 6 points and 12 rebounds). Advertisement Chandler said his frustration led to the ejection. “I figured we would be a little flat considering the travel schedule,” he said, “but I thought we would be able to do some things to slow them down.” With Chandler gone, Anthony quietly exited, too, calling it a night with four and a half minutes remaining and the Knicks trailing by 19. For a second night in a row, he watched the waning moments of a runaway loss from the bench. With each successive defeat, the Knicks’ chances for a playoff berth sink further, and thoughts inevitably turn to the future — namely what it might have in store for Anthony, who can opt out of his contract and become a free agent this summer. The Knicks’ on-court futility, coupled with their continued drama off the court, would seem to make the team less and less desirable to a player of Anthony’s caliber. Anthony, who played 37 minutes Friday, said he might get his right hand examined after receiving several slaps during the course of the game. He shrugged off his apparent fatigue from logging hefty minutes, night after night, as a bright spot for a dimming franchise. But even Anthony might begin to wonder what it is all for. “I keep saying we’ve got to figure it out, figure it out, figure it out,” Anthony said. “It’s time now where we should have it.” REBOUNDS Amar’e Stoudemire was given the night off after playing Thursday night in Miami. Last week, Stoudemire complained of soreness in his left knee, and Mike Woodson held him out of last Wednesday’s game against the New Orleans Pelicans. A version of this article appears in print on March 1, 2014, on page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: Warriors Soar, Knicks Lag, and Boos Rain Down. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
U.S.   The New Face of Mormons on a Mission. Ashley Farr spends one of her first few days in Daejeon, South Korea, singing hymns in Korean and meeting fellow missionaries, more and more of whom are women.          
Arts   The Race for the Documentary Oscar. This year’s race for the documentary Oscar boils down to a divide between the serious-minded insider favorites like “The Act of Killing” and lighter films with popular appeal.          
Business   Echo, Echo. Advertisement By Andrea Carla Michaels and Michael Blake Mar 3, 2014 The New York Times Crossword is available through subscription only. MONDAY’S PUZZLE — Happy Monday, everyone. Who’s ready to get this week started? Today’s puzzle, constructed by Andrea Carla Michaels and Michael Blake, features a slew of theme answers in which two similar-sounding words are placed one after the other, creating new phrases with often strange meanings. The words aren’t exact echoes per se, because the second word is one letter shorter than the first. (This means that once you figure out the first half of a theme entry you can confidently fill in the rest of the letters.) I was a big fan of 62 Across, in which the response to “memorize lines for a Shakespearean king?” was LEARN LEAR. Funny enough, I noticed that one of the non-theme answers had a similar thing going on. New Jersey Governor Chris CHRISTIE has repeated syllables in his name, but not quite in the “LEARN LEAR” format. It’s a Monday, so the puzzle is pretty straightforward in terms of solving. Still, a few clues required a few moments to stop and think, like REPO Man, EUGENE and ERSE. My favorite clue had to be “set of keys?” for PIANO, although honorable mention goes to LIRA, the former “capital” of Italy. For today’s video, here’s a clip of “IF WE Never Meet Again” by Elvis. What did you think? Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. Emily Cox and Henry Rathvon offer us a challenging cryptic crossword puzzle.Read more… A place for solvers to discuss and ask questions about the “A Little Variety” suite of puzzles.Read more… Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… David Poole has something up his sleeve.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Fashion   Divorce: Share Your Experience. Advertisement Advertisement FEB. 28, 2014 Unhitched, a column appearing in the Vows pages of The New York Times, tells the story of a relationship, from romance to marriage to divorce to life afterward. We are interested in couples of all ages and backgrounds, including those divorced more than once. The column allows both of the former spouses to discuss how their lives have changed and what they have learned. Did the divorce represent a failure or a healthy restart? Was it bitter or amicable? Are there things that could have been done to save the marriage or make divorcing easier? If you are divorced and you and your ex are willing to be interviewed, please fill out the form below. (Asterisks mark required fields.) Your contact information will not be published. A reporter or editor may follow up with you.     Advertisement  Thank you for your submission.   By submitting to us, you are promising that the content is original, doesn’t plagiarize from anyone or infringe a copyright or trademark, doesn’t violate anybody’s rights and isn’t libelous or otherwise unlawful or misleading. And you agree to the rules of our Member Agreement, found online at our website.      &amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;lt;a href="http://nytimes.wufoo.com/forms/z7x0w7/"&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;gt;Fill out the form here.&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;lt;/a&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;gt; See More » Go to Home Page »
Foreign   In Our Pages: March 3. Advertisement   ROME — Eugenio Cardinal Pacelli was elected Pope this evening [March 2] on his sixty-third birthday. He took the name Pius XII. His election came at the end of the first day’s balloting, which is almost unprecedented in modern times and indicates that an overwhelming sentiment in his favor must have manifested itself from the opening of the Conclave. The new Pope is the first ever to have visited America. He spent several weeks on vacation in the United States in 1936. His knowledge of and sympathy with America is expected to lead to a strengthening of American representation in the College of Cardinals. In Vatican circles the greatest satisfaction is expressed at the choice and the new Pope is seen as eminently qualified by his experience, wide travel, and diplomatic training, to guide the Church safely through troubled times ahead. News of the election was broadcast throughout the world. The first news, ‘‘Holy Church has a new Pope,’’ flashed over the radio at 5:28 o’clock this afternoon, brought scores of thousands by car and on foot to Saint Peter’s Square to hear the official announcement and receive the new Pope’s blessing from the balcony of Saint Peter’s Basilica. 1964: New Drive Against Religion Launched by Kremlin MOSCOW — A major new antireligious campaign aimed at everyone from preschool toddlers to pensioners was made public today [March 2] by the Soviet Communist party. In a sweeping decree affecting journalists and other key groups, the party’s Central Committee ordered intensive nationwide efforts to overcome the ‘‘remnants of religion.’’ Published in detail in the Communist party newspaper ‘‘Pravda,’’ the decree called for stepped-up efforts to reach believers in their homes and places of work and to prevent dissemination of religious information among children of preschool age — ‘‘in every settlement and collective.’’ ‘‘Pravda’’ also took to task the party organizations that ‘‘live in peace’’ with party members who observe religious rites. ‘‘Pravda’’ told its readers it was necessary to eliminate ‘‘private-property instincts, nationalistic, religious and other prejudices’’ and it added: ‘‘Any religion or belief in the supernatural, in good and evil, in an almighty creator, is a distorted, antiscientific outlook on nature and science, is a negation of science and a substitution of scientific knowledge by fantastic myths and legends.’’ It said: “Any religion turns a man into a slave of the gods he invented.’’  This blog will share highlights and curiosities from The International Herald Tribune's storied reportage. While we will share coverage of historic events — the world wars, the women's suffrage movement, the great expeditions — we will also republish glimpses of less earth-shaking moments and the ephemera of daily life. The same stories that caught the eyes of our generations of editors now offer us insight into the lives and interests of generations of Trib readers. Read more » From the International Herald Tribune archives: The Vichy government limits menus in 1941.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: A Nigerian officer at war sends a dispatch in 1916. Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: Germany establishes a naval repair shop 500 miles from South America in 1941.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: Prince Victor Napoleon gives a treatise on French politics in 1891.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: British troops attack Irak forces in 1941.Read more… Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Movies   Who Will Win Best Picture?. “Gravity” has won many of the technical awards this evening, but will that translate to a win for best picture?          
Society   Danielle Miller and Robert Garcia. Advertisement Advertisement MARCH 2, 2014 Danielle Beth Miller, a daughter of Robin Schweibel Miller and Alan J. Miller of Tenafly, N.J., was married Saturday evening to Robert Michael Garcia, the son of Maralyn A. Garcia and Ernesto Garcia, also of Tenafly. Rabbi Laurie Phillips officiated at the Liberty Warehouse, an event space in Brooklyn. Mrs. Garcia, 29, works in New York for Google, where she presents advertising and marketing data to advertising clients. She graduated from Cornell. Her father is an owner of MM&R, a women’s clothing manufacturer in New York. Her mother works as a personal financial assistant to private clients in New York. She is a trustee and former president of the Kaplen JCC on the Palisades, a Jewish community center in Tenafly. Mr. Garcia, 28, is the senior associate for business development at Gotham Asset Management in New York. He graduated cum laude from Tulane, from which he also received a master’s degree in finance. His parents own Empire State Mortgage in Weehawken, N.J. A version of this article appears in print on March 2, 2014, on page ST16 of the New York edition with the headline: Danielle Miller, Robert Garcia. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Sports   Bolstered by Their Depth, Nets Head Home on the Rise. Advertisement Advertisement By ROB REISCHELMARCH 2, 2014 MILWAUKEE — Jason Collins is finally heading to his new home. He will be bringing along an ascending team that continues to play rock-solid basketball. Collins and the Nets downed the host Milwaukee Bucks, 107-98, on Saturday night to cap a 6-game, 11-day trip. The Nets displayed depth, getting 54 points from their reserves — more than half their total. “I can’t wait to go home,” said forward Andray Blatche, who had a huge night off the bench with 19 points and 13 rebounds. “It’s been a long trip.” It was also a successful one for the Nets (28-29), who went 4-2 on their trip and pulled within three and a half games of Toronto, which leads the Eastern Conference’s Atlantic Division. The Nets also improved to 18-8 since Jan. 1, their best record to start a calendar year since 2002, when their current head coach, Jason Kidd, led the team to the N.B.A. finals. Marcus Thornton, acquired from Sacramento in a trade on Feb. 20, led the way with 25 points, going 4 of 7 from 3-point range. He was one of five players with more than 10 points for the Nets, who held off a gutsy effort from a Milwaukee team that has the N.B.A.’s worst record (11-47). Advertisement “I think this is a very positive road trip,” Kidd said, “starting in Utah, but understanding that the last game is always the hardest because you’re thinking about getting home. And I thought the guys came out from the start and put ourselves in position to win the game.” Collins, the N.B.A.’s first openly gay active player, had a productive eight-minute stint in which he did the little things that have made him a favorite of Kidd’s, setting solid screens and playing strong defense while adding a veteran presence. On Monday, the Nets will host Chicago, giving Collins a chance to make his first appearance at Barclays Center since he signed a 10-day contract Feb. 23. “Yeah, looking forward to it,” Collins said. “I’ve obviously played in the arena before. It would be nice obviously to play in front of the home crowd.” Just 48 hours before the Nets’ latest win, Collins presented an autographed No. 98 jersey to the family of Matthew Shepard in Denver. Collins wears the number in honor of Shepard, a gay college student who was murdered in Wyoming in 1998. “It was special,” Collins said of his meeting with Shepard’s family. “It was a great meeting, and they’re a wonderful family, and I’m very fortunate to have that with them. I’ll say it was a great experience — again, very fortunate, very glad that they drove down from Wyoming and glad to have met with them.” The Nets, who were once 3-9 and later 5-13, are now making a push to host a first-round playoff series. They played without Kevin Garnett, who sat out with back spasms. “I don’t think it’s long term,” Kidd said. “This is his rest day, so we’ll get him some proper rest and see how he feels tomorrow.” Advertisement Without Garnett, the Nets’ bench stepped up in a big way. “That’s what we do,” Blatche said. “We just came out and did what we do.” Neither side played much defense in the first half, and the Nets carried a 55-53 lead into halftime. They shot 48.8 percent from the floor, and Milwaukee connected on 46.3 percent of its attempts. Nets guard Deron Williams went 3 for 5 from 3-point range and scored 13 of his 15 points in the first half. Thornton made all four of his field-goal attempts and had 13 points in nine minutes. The Nets stretched their lead to 77-72 through three quarters, with Shaun Livingston and Paul Pierce each scoring 6 points in the third. The Nets opened the fourth quarter on an 8-2 blitz to grab an 85-74 lead. Thornton and Blatche began the burst with baskets, and Mirza Teletovic drained a 3-pointer to force a Milwaukee timeout. The Bucks closed the gap to 4 points with five minutes remaining. But Thornton drained a pair of 3-pointers to stymie any hopes of a Bucks comeback. “We’re bringing the pieces together right now and trying to form some continuity going into the stretch run,” said Livingston, who had 14 points on 7-of-11 shooting. “For us to be as good as we want to be, we need to have all five guys playing as a unit,” he added. Now, after nearly two weeks on the road, the Nets are going home. And after sitting out most of the season and hoping for a chance to extend his career, Collins cannot wait. “To put into words right now, nah,” Collins said when asked what the last week had meant to him. “You know, obviously, things happen very quickly. The events over the past week have been very special.” A version of this article appears in print on March 2, 2014, on page SP1 of the New York edition with the headline: Bolstered by Their Depth, Nets Head Home on the Rise. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Travel   ‘A Trip to Mammoth Cave, Ky.’. Advertisement Advertisement In 1864, James Fowler Rusling, a Union soldier and abolitionist, published a pamphlet recounting his experiences in the cave as well as an interview he conducted with Materson Bransford, the slave who served as his guide. FEB. 28, 2014
U.S.   A Dilemma for Doctors. Complying with the mandates of the Affordable Care Act is a daunting task for many private practice physicians, and it is pushing some to go work for hospital systems.          
Books   The Read Around: Roddy Doyle. Roddy Doyle discusses how the “daily humiliations of getting older” inform the characters in his new book, “The Guts.”          
Business   Spirit of Experiment. Advertisement By Bruce Haight and Peter A. Collins Mar 4, 2014 The New York Times Crossword is available through subscription only. TUESDAY’S PUZZLE — Bifocals, the lightning rod and the odometer. These are just a few of the everyday objects that BENJAMIN FRANKLIN invented when he wasn’t busy with his other hobbies. Like publishing Poor Richard’s Almanac. Or developing the postal service. Or, oh yeah, fostering American independence. Reading his full roster of accomplishments will make you feel like a dolt. Then again, you may come away inspired by that spirit of innovation, as today’s constructors evidently were. Indeed, Bruce Haight and Peter A. Collins have come up with a highly original form of presentation for today’s puzzle. At first glance you’ll notice that it’s an asymmetrical grid, which is uncommon enough, but look a little bit closer and you’ll see that the black squares are arranged to depict an image that relates to today’s theme. That image is of A KITE, related to that BRAINY fellow’s famous ELECTRICITY experiment during a lightning storm in 1752. I’ll pass it over to Bruce and Pete to tell you how this idea came about. Bruce writes: “Pete Collins and I have been friends since childhood, when our families used to vacation together on a small lake in Wisconsin. He agreed to mentor me in 2012 when I got interested in constructing crosswords. I got this electricity puzzle idea when I was “block-doodling” one day on the computer and noticed I could make a pretty realistic looking kite. My wife Liz suggested I tie in Ben Franklin so I worked some lightning bolts into the grid. The first version had BEN and KEY attached to the bottom of the kite string, but that did not fly. I loved the grid art though, so I shipped the puzzle to Pete to see if he could get this project off the ground — I’ll let him finish the story. Thanks for everything, Pete!” Pete adds: “Bruce and I share an interest in ‘grid art.’ I think this grid is particularly nice, with the kite and lightning bolts. But make no mistake — this one is Bruce’s baby (I’m just the godfather). We went back and forth several times, with the kite being oriented various ways, before we settled on this arrangement. In addition to the grid art, I really like the highly unusual diagonal symmetry — and the three pairs of themed answers. And our reward for getting this puzzle published? We get three Benjamins!” Putting aside the theme for a moment, this puzzle also boats a high number of fresh answers, among them DR DOOM, FUR COAT, PHENOMS and OLD TIMER, which made for a fun solve. For today’s clip, here’s a video of the armonica, the musical instrument invented by Franklin.  What did you think? Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. Emily Cox and Henry Rathvon offer us a challenging cryptic crossword puzzle.Read more… A place for solvers to discuss and ask questions about the “A Little Variety” suite of puzzles.Read more… Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… David Poole has something up his sleeve.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   Image of the Day: March 3. Advertisement   India’s national elections began April 7 and will continue on nine separate dates until May 12, with results expected to be announced on May 16. The vote is the world’s largest, with 814 million eligible voters set to choose 543 members of the lower house of Parliament. The other two seats will be appointed by the president. This election is widely considered to be India’s most consequential since 1977. India Ink will be moving to the World page of The New York Times. Read more… A memorial ceremony at the Imphal War Cemetery in Manipur to honor the soldiers who died during World War II.Read more… The newly elected prime minister reaches out to the public in a blog post about his first 30 days in office.Read more… Newborns whose mothers are unable to breastfeed are given stored breast milk to protect them from potentially life-threatening infection.Read more… In the final stage of a long decline, Hindustan Motors announced in May that it would suspend production of the Ambassador, a car that was once synonymous with style and status.Read more… This report on India from the journalists of The New York Times and a pool of talented writers in India and beyond provides unbiased, authoritative reporting on the country and its place in the world. India Ink also strives to be a virtual meeting point for discussion of this complex, fast-changing democracy – its politics, economy, culture and everyday life. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Movies   No Great Surprises for Oscar Night. There were no big Oscar surprises, but this year’s Academy Awards show featured an engaging host and a best picture winner that even a critic can love.          
Science   ScienceTake. See how monkeys teach manners, elephants show empathy and ants imitate water in ScienceTake, combining cutting-edge research from the world of science with stunning footage of the natural world in action.          Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics The Killing of Farkhunda This Week’s Movies | May 6, 2016 Erdogan’s March to Autocracy in Turkey Bill Cunningham | Garden Party Best of Obama's Correspondents' Dinner Speech So You Want to Do a Handstand? Coconut Cluster Granola Cruz Responds to Trump’s Paternal Dig How Will Obama Spend His Retirement?
Sports   Photo Replay: Feb. 24-March 2. Elian Herrera, left, and Scooter Gennett of the Milwaukee Brewers picked up baseballs during spring training in Phoenix on Monday. CreditMatt York/Associated Press 1 of 14 This weekend’s America’s Cup World Series race in the Hudson River is preparing Oracle Team U.S.A. for the 2017 America’s Cup in Bermuda.
Travel   In Rhode Island, a Celebration of Portugal. Advertisement While bacalao may not be the first thing that comes to mind when planning a trip to Rhode Island, a Newport hotel is trying to change that with a week’s worth of Portuguese food and wine, aimed at promoting the heritage of the state’s large population of Portuguese descendants. The inaugural New Portugal Food and Wine Week, hosted by the Castle Hill Inn, March 7 to 14, centers around a four-course meal created by George Mendes, the owner of Aldea restaurant in New York, and Karsten Hart, Castle Hill’s executive chef. Mr. Mendes, whose cooking is inspired by his family’s Portuguese heritage and the culinary traditions of the Iberian Peninsula, will be on hand to prepare the first meal, on Friday, March 7, to be paired with wines selected by Bartholomew Broadbent, whose Broadbent Selections specializes in importing port, Madeira and other wines from Portugal. The meal and pairings will be offered on their own throughout the week, along with wine tastings and other events. Or it can be purchased as part of a “dine and stay” package, which includes a one-night stay in the late-19th-century Narragansett Bay mansion, the New Portugal dinner and breakfast and afternoon tea, starting at $590. The menu features dishes with a mix of traditional and contemporary cuisine: croquettes de bacalhau (salted cod fritters); shrimp alhinho (with smoked baby beets and vanilla); arroz de polvo (octopus rice), pork and c;ams in a smoked seaweed vinho verde broth; and almond sweet bread with Madeira and gooseberries. In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
U.S.   Retro Report. In bold documentary style, Retro Report looks back at the major stories that shaped the world using fresh interviews, analysis and compelling archival footage. Produced by Retro Report for The New York Times.          Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics The Killing of Farkhunda This Week’s Movies | May 6, 2016 Erdogan’s March to Autocracy in Turkey Bill Cunningham | Garden Party Best of Obama's Correspondents' Dinner Speech So You Want to Do a Handstand? Coconut Cluster Granola Cruz Responds to Trump’s Paternal Dig How Will Obama Spend His Retirement?
Business   Bond Market in China May See First Local Default. Advertisement Updated, 8:18 p.m. | HONG KONG — Chinese companies have been selling record amounts of bonds on the domestic market in recent years. But in a sign that market forces have not been at work, analysts have been quick to point out, none of them have ever had a default. That may be about to change. A small company in Shanghai has said it is unlikely to meet a Friday deadline for an annual interest payment, putting it at risk of becoming the first company to default in China’s domestic bond market, which could have broader ramifications. The Shanghai Chaori Solar Energy Science and Technology Company, which makes solar cells and panels, issued a stock exchange announcement on Tuesday saying that “due to various uncontrollable factors” the company was unlikely to be able to meet the payment of 89.8 million renminbi, or $14.6 million, on a bond of one billion renminbi that it sold to domestic investors in 2012. Chaori said it had come up with only about 4 million renminbi, meaning that unless it receives a bailout or generates fresh cash, it will default. As of Wednesday, the company did not appear any closer to resolving its debt problem. “Since the official announcement yesterday as regards our debt repayment situation, there has been no additional development thus far,” said Liu Tielong, a spokesman for Chaori. Until now, investors’ concerns about potential problems with debt accumulation in China have tended to focus on ever-expanding local government borrowing or the rapid, often unwieldy, growth of the shadow banking sector. But the prospect of a default in the domestic corporate bond market introduces an additional dimension to assessing the overall picture of China’s indebtedness. “In China’s case, the focus is on the knock-on effects of one default and whether those would prove to be detrimental to the overall bond market,” said Ted Osborn, a partner at PricewaterhouseCoopers in Hong Kong who specializes in debt restructuring. “If one of the domestic bond issuers were to default, would that cause the market to teeter or to crash?” Corporate bonds fell on Wednesday in China. The ChinaBond New Composite Total Return Index, a broad indicator of the market, was down 0.16 percent. Over the last decade, China’s corporate bond market has grown from almost nothing to become the third largest in the world, trailing only those of the United States and Japan, according to figures from the Bank for International Settlements. Total corporate bonds outstanding have risen to 8.5 trillion renminbi at the end of last year, or about $1.4 trillion, from about 500 billion renminbi at the end of 2005, according to official figures were compiled by the Asian Development Bank. Despite its tremendous size, China’s domestic bond market remains underdeveloped. It is still largely closed to foreign investors, and critics say it does a poor job of pricing in risk. The lack of defaults in China’s domestic debt markets has been unusual, even by the country’s own standards. Chinese companies that have sold bonds denominated in dollars to international investors in offshore debt markets have defaulted in the past. A default last year by Suntech Power was a notable example in the solar industry. In this regard, analysts see a potential onshore bond default as having positive implications, a sign that the market is maturing. “We think it’s a good thing, as a normal economy needs defaults to better price bonds and other debt products,” Ting Lu, a China economist, and other analysts at Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch unit wrote on Wednesday in a research note. “Defaults of some debt products are not on a similar scale to a collapse of a major financial institution.” Still, officials have been wary of corporate defaults, not least because they can lead to layoffs and social instability as businesses are shut or otherwise restructured. This is especially true when state-owned companies are involved. Chaori, which is not run by the government, encountered problems making an interest payment on its bonds in early 2013. But at the time, local officials in Shanghai and the company’s state-backed bond underwriter made a deal to cover principal payments so Chaori could meet its interest payments, according to local news media and analyst reports. Given the Friday deadline, a bailout is not out of the question for Chaori. But several analysts on Wednesday interpreted the default as a fait accompli. Letting Chaori default “will help go some way to correct the moral hazard problem in China’s financial sector, and that is positive for the long-term development of the onshore bond market,” Zhiwei Zhang, a China economist at Nomura, wrote on Wednesday in a research note. Because the company has been struggling financially for a while, “the immediate repercussions in the bond market may not be systemic,” he added. “Nonetheless, we continue to expect more credit defaults in the corporate, local government financing vehicle and shadow banking sectors this year.” Hilda Wang contributed reporting. A version of this article appears in print on 03/06/2014, on page B3 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Solar Company Warns It May Be First to Default in China’s Bond Market. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Food   Anna's Espresso. Anna Agovino has been making espresso in the Morris Park section of the Bronx for 14 years. She describes the drink as her “gasoline.”          
Foreign   Bangalore Welcomes a Later Last Call. Advertisement BANGALORE — As India’s hub of globalization, Bangalore has long had one major obstacle in its quest to be a truly cosmopolitan city: a lack of nightlife, thanks to a stringent city ordinance mandating an 11:30 p.m. closing time for its many bars and restaurants. On weekends, a familiar scene would play out, starting with the bartenders and waiting staff issuing the last call for orders even before 11 p.m. After a little while, the music would stop and the bouncers would start closing in on those trying to linger. Tales of ambition and youth from India’s outsourcing hub. Even as the staff tried to hurry the guests out, the police would arrive. The customers would start arguing with the staff and the police, but in the end, they would lose. Finally, long before the Cinderella hour, the party would be over. This past weekend, K.J. George, the home minister of the state of Karnataka, of which Bangalore is the capital, said he would allow the city’s bars and restaurants a three-month trial run to extend operations until 1 a.m., as residents were clamoring for the change. The new closing time is likely to go into effect within the next two weeks. Not even the recent announcements of free public Wi-Fi and electric buses on the roads has generated as much excitement in what is known as India’s pub capital, home to a huge population of young professionals. The residents of Bangalore will now be able to enjoy a nightlife like their friends do in Mumbai and Delhi. “Bangalore has finally grown up and got a life,” said Ashwin Nair, 28, a marketing executive at a multinational engineering company who finishes work at 8:30 p.m. and has to scramble to catch a drink with friends. “There will be time to drink a couple of beers and have a decent conversation without worrying about being hustled out,” he said. In the 1980s and 1990s, coinciding with a boom in outsourcing and call centers in Bangalore, pubs, discos and bars proliferated in the city.  They stayed open until late to accommodate young employees working around the clock.  The bars were relaxed spaces where women could drink in public – unheard of even in bigger cities like Delhi at the time – and where bouncers and condom vending machines came into vogue. The proliferation of pubs and bars triggered resentment among older and middle-class residents who believed that the drinking and dancing would destroy Indian culture and ruin their children. In the last decade, however, the city’s understaffed police force has brought in a series of restrictions on such businesses, citing an archaic 1960s law.  So besides forcing pubs and restaurants to shut down at 11:30 p.m., the police have severely curtailed the playing of loud music, dancing and bartending by female employees. “Imagine, the government was constantly telling full-grown, tax-paying adults how to behave,” said Siddharth Poojari, owner of a restaurant chain and a high-profile bar in the upmarket UB City Mall. Mindful that the government will be watching them closely during this trial period, bar owners and restaurateurs said they would take steps to make Bangalore safe even with the extended hours. A few bar owners are talking of introducing in-house breathalyzer tests so that customers can check their blood alcohol levels before taking off.  Others are discussing partnerships with cab companies to ferry customers home. “It is all for the collective good,” Mr. Poojari said.  “We are on a three-month probation; we have to prove that we can behave responsibly.” Young people like Sanjana Nanjappa, 24, a behavior therapist who lives with her parents, will have to figure out how to calm parental fears about staying out later, and that’s where the city authorities can help. Ms. Nanjappa said her parents would feel more reassured if other services like transport, including public transit and taxis, and the police adjusted to the late hours as well. Bangalore’s police force has received $830,000 and approval to hire an additional 2,500 officers from the city government. “We are working out a plan, and we are confident we will handle it well,” said Raghavendra H. Auradkar, the Bangalore police commissioner. Saritha Rai sometimes feels she is the only person living in Bangalore who was actually raised here. There’s never a dull moment in her mercurial metropolis. Reach her on Twitter @SarithaRai. India’s national elections began April 7 and will continue on nine separate dates until May 12, with results expected to be announced on May 16. The vote is the world’s largest, with 814 million eligible voters set to choose 543 members of the lower house of Parliament. The other two seats will be appointed by the president. This election is widely considered to be India’s most consequential since 1977. India Ink will be moving to the World page of The New York Times. Read more… A memorial ceremony at the Imphal War Cemetery in Manipur to honor the soldiers who died during World War II.Read more… The newly elected prime minister reaches out to the public in a blog post about his first 30 days in office.Read more… Newborns whose mothers are unable to breastfeed are given stored breast milk to protect them from potentially life-threatening infection.Read more… In the final stage of a long decline, Hindustan Motors announced in May that it would suspend production of the Ambassador, a car that was once synonymous with style and status.Read more… This report on India from the journalists of The New York Times and a pool of talented writers in India and beyond provides unbiased, authoritative reporting on the country and its place in the world. India Ink also strives to be a virtual meeting point for discussion of this complex, fast-changing democracy – its politics, economy, culture and everyday life. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Movies   Steve McQueen on ’12 Years a Slave’. The director spoke with Melena Ryzik of The Times on the red carpet before the Oscars, where his film was named best picture of the year.          
Science   Is Breast-Feeding Really Better? Sign Up for the Running Email. Advertisement Many women who are unable to breast-feed feel guilty about it and worry they may be depriving their children of a range of benefits. Groups like the American Academy of Pediatrics and the World Health Organization recommend six months of exclusive breast-feeding for all infants, citing studies that show breast milk is easily digestible and has nutrients that are superior to or absent from infant formulas, including immunological substances that reduce rates of infection and fatty acids important in brain development. But now a new study suggests that many of the long-term benefits attributed to breast-feeding may be an effect not of breast-feeding or breast milk itself but of the general good health and prosperity of women who choose to breast-feed. Researchers at Ohio State University compared 1,773 sibling pairs, one of whom had been breast-fed and one bottle-fed, on 11 measures of health and intellectual competency. The children ranged in age from 4 to 14 years. The researchers recorded various health and behavioral outcomes in the sibling pairs, including body mass index, obesity, asthma, hyperactivity, reading comprehension, math ability and memory-based intelligence. The study, published online in Social Science & Medicine, found no statistically significant differences between the breast-fed and bottle-fed siblings on any of these measures. By studying “discordant” siblings — one of whom had been breast-fed and the other not — the authors sought to minimize the possibility that racial, socioeconomic, educational or other differences between families could affect the results. Many earlier studies on breast-feeding failed to control for such factors, they say. Campaigns to increase the rate of breast-feeding have been highly successful in recent years. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, about three-quarters of American mothers now breast-feed, compared with less than two-thirds in 2000, and about 49 percent are still breast-feeding at six months, compared with 34 percent in 2000. Yet despite this increase, researchers have consistently found large socioeconomic and racial disparities in breast-feeding rates. A C.D.C. survey in 2008 found that 75 percent of white infants and 59 percent of black infants were ever breast-fed, and in 2013, the agency reported that 47 percent of white babies but only 30 percent of black babies were still being breast-fed at 6 months. Compared with bottle-fed infants, breast-fed babies are more likely to be born into families with higher incomes, have parents with higher educational attainments, and live in safer neighborhoods with easier access to health care services. Still, sibling studies such as this latest one do not solve all the problems of bias. “We were not able to control for everything that could affect what would make a mom breast-feed one child and not the other,” said the lead author, Cynthia G. Colen, an assistant professor of sociology at Ohio State. “But we did control for premature birth, birth order, the age of the mother, and whether she was working when she had one infant and not when she had the other.” Geoff Der, a statistician at the University of Glasgow who has worked with the same data in previous studies, said that the findings in the present study were robust and the authors’ method for eliminating selection bias was powerful. He had reassuring words for women who do not or cannot breast-feed. “In a society with a clean water supply and modern formulas,” he said, “a woman who isn’t able to breast-feed shouldn’t be feeling guilty, and the likelihood that there’s any harm to the baby is pretty slim.” Your health questions answered by Times journalists and experts. Your Questions | All » Get Well's Running email for practical tips, expert advice, exclusive content and a bit of motivation delivered to your inbox every week to help you on your running journey. Coming soon. How much do you know about the amazing things that go on in your gut? Take our quiz to find out about the creepy, crawly critters living in your home. What surface is the most friendly to the flu virus? Where’s the best place to stand when you’re talking to a sick person? How does sleep affect health, relationships and well-being? The “Reading the Mind in the Eyes Test” measures ability to understand others’ emotional states. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   Golson Back at Practice. Advertisement Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 3, 2014 Notre Dame quarterback Everett Golson returned to the practice field for the first time in 10 months, participating in spring drills after being suspended for the fall semester for academic impropriety. Coach Brian Kelly has said that Malik Zaire will compete with Golson for the starter’s job. Go to Home Page »
Travel   In Newark Airport Lounge, Israeli Art. Advertisement A new lounge at Newark Liberty International Airport is providing an artistic – -and kosher — respite for travelers to Israel who might be looking for more than just free Wi-Fi and contemporary furniture while they wait. “Art & Lounge,” in Newark’s Terminal B, serves as place to relax but also a gallery for a rotation of Israeli artists, featuring installations curated by Lital Dotan and Eyal Perry, two artists from Tel Aviv who have made a life’s practice of turning their homes into live exhibition spaces, and exhibition spaces into their home. (They now operate the Glasshouse Project in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, which they describe as an “art-life-lab.”) The couple’s first show at the Newark lounge, called “Window Seat,” replaces the typical nonstop news broadcast on lounge televisions with a metaphorical airplane window, a video presentation of several landscapes created by four artists: Miriam Cabessa, Oded Hirsch, Shay Kun and Tom Pnini, who each contributed other works as well. “In the frame of a house,” the curators explained in a statement about the exhibition, “a window seat has romantic associations, as they are often identified with luxury of spare time.” In airplanes, they added, the window seat serves as a dimension of psychological space and in an airport terminal it is “a space of transition and restlessness, and manifests a state of in-between, which is why ‘Window Seat’ offers an invitation to stay, pause, reflect, before moving on to the next destination.” An assortment of healthy and kosher foods, picked by Shmulik Markus, a chef and the chief executive of Restotel, an Israeli hospitality and restaurant company, are also available to visitors, along with a selection of wine and beer. El Al Airlines has been the first to make use of the lounge since it opened in November, offering free access to its premier passengers. But Luxury Lounges Ltd., the design firm that created the space, hopes to open it up to more travelers for a fee — around $35 — in the near future. In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
U.S.   Obama Discusses Budget for 2015. The president unveiled his $4 trillion budget for the 2015 fiscal year, which proposes tax credits for the working poor.          
Business   Scrub Up. Advertisement By Daniel Raymon Mar 6, 2014 The New York Times Crossword is available through subscription only. THURSDAY’S PUZZLE — Erno RUBIK, the Hungarian architect who is best known for inventing the Rubik’s Cube, once said that “the problems of puzzles are very near the problems of life.” So if your life doesn’t have enough problems already, take a crack at Daniel Raymon’s rebus, which will help you meet your quota. I will resist the urge to say too much about the rebus, but I’ll just say that the easiest point of entry is at 19 Across if you remember that “Cajun French” is a DIALECT. The puzzle holds up in the non-theme answer department, too. There are several entries that include the letters J and K, which can be tough to place in a crossword. Just to pick a few as examples, there’s JAMBS and JINX, and KABOB and KARAT. Daniel’s notes are below. But beware, as there are spoilers. This is my first Thursday puzzle so I’m very excited for everyone to see it. It’s especially exciting to have my very own creation join the group of NYT rebus puzzles. On that note, there have been other rebus puzzles using “box” phrases as revealers, just like this one. One thing that makes mine a little different, I think, is that each rebus box is a different word. I also like how I was able to split up both ZEST and TONE in two different ways; not so for LAVA and DIAL, but at least there’s some symmetry there — two split up differently, two not. I also like the long answers for the most part, though PASADENA, BRUSSELS and BRATIS[LAVA] might be a bit too much geography for one puzzle. Also RA[DIAL] TIRE and PIS[TON E]NGINE are a bit bland, especially for theme answers. Oh well. Overall I’m very happy with the puzzle, and I hope you enjoy it too! For today’s video, a classic by OTIS Redding. How did you fare? Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. Emily Cox and Henry Rathvon offer us a challenging cryptic crossword puzzle.Read more… A place for solvers to discuss and ask questions about the “A Little Variety” suite of puzzles.Read more… Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… David Poole has something up his sleeve.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Business   Shell Game. Advertisement By Ruth B. Margolin Feb 26, 2014 The New York Times Crossword is available through subscription only. WEDNESDAY’S PUZZLE — Today marks the debut of crossword constructor Ruth B. Margolin, whose first-ever New York Times puzzle has been rated a Wednesday difficulty. Not bad for a newcomer. Appropriately enough for a debut, the puzzle’s language exudes the idea of achievement and of reaching new heights. There’s a nod to the first flight of the Wright brothers with the clue for AVIATE and to another entry about upward-climbing mountaineers with ASCENTS. Those who enjoy a good echo will be treated to a fine example today with the repeat use of the word “shell.” The clues in question are “Shell carries it” and “It carries a shell,” referring, respectively to GAS and a SNAIL. Context is key, folks — it could mean the difference between an oil company and a mollusk. Some other noteworthy entries include “1984 superstate” for EURASIA, and “winter topper” for SKI CAP. I had no idea about the answer for “sheer curtain fabric” at 38 Across, but I was bailed out by a couple familiar crossers — among them, Che GUEVARA, the trusty SPORK, and an airtight ALIBI. That gave me more than enough letters to hazard a guess about the fabric, and voilà! It’s VOILE! Now I’ll turn the mike over to Ruth: I am quite excited to have my first puzzle published, and what began as a lark has become an engaging hobby. I solve the puzzle daily, and occasionally a puzzle takes a particular approach to playing with language that gives me an “I can do that!” feeling and sends me off in search of words and puns that fit my concept. I no longer remember any particular puzzle that sparked the wordplay part of my brain and led me to create this one, adding IST to familiar words. The challenge of course, was that the addition of IST had to change the meaning of the word entirely. There’s no humor in changing “violin” to “violinist.” So to the word lists. I pored through lists of words containing IST, mentally subtracting the IST to find those words that could then be built into phrases that had the potential to win a chuckle once the IST was put back in. So from “cubist” to “cub” to “cub reporter” to CUBISTREPORTER. I think my favorite answer has to be SLEEPERCELLISTS (though my proposed clue was “Musicians who tend to be flat?”). Having played in the wind section of orchestras throughout my youth, I know what it is to count many dozens of measures of rests before an entrance, trying to maintain concentration, while the string players played without pause. It always seemed possible that someone might one day fall asleep, but I never thought it would be the cellists! I was pleased with the phrases I was able to create, and even more pleased that Will (finally!) liked them, too. (I don’t think I have to confess here just how many of my submissions have not made the grade….) So now that I’ve met Will’s standards and made my debut, am I a strict constructionIST? In honor of 41 down, here’s a sample of the CALYPSO music of Harry Belafonte. What did you think? Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. David Kahn puts us through the wringer.Read more… Emily Cox and Henry Rathvon offer us a challenging cryptic crossword puzzle.Read more… A place for solvers to discuss and ask questions about the “A Little Variety” suite of puzzles.Read more… Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Food   Recipe Lab. Channels & Shows Home Search Food Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Our favorite recipes explained in two minutes or less. Recent Episodes in Recipe Lab Recipe Lab Food 1:10 Easiest Vanilla Ice Cream Recipe Lab Food 1:37 Gazpacho Recipe Lab Food 1:02 Recipe Lab: Pan-Roasted Fish Fillets Recipe Lab Food 1:18 Recipe Lab: Roast Lamb Recipe Lab Food 1:34 Texas-Style Chili Recipe Lab Food 1:32 Foolproof Tarte Tatin Recipe Recipe Lab Food 1:15 Cast-Iron Steak Recipe Lab Food 1:15 Orange-Currant Scones Recipe Lab Food 1:07 Marinara Sauce Show more videos from Recipe Lab Most Popular 1 Opinion Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics 2 Science Why It’s Hard to Keep the Pounds Off 3 Food How to Cut Up a Whole Chicken 4 U.S. Obama Delivers Howard’s Commencement 5 Opinion Manufacturing China’s Future 6 Movies This Week’s Movies | May 6, 2016 7 World The Killing of Farkhunda 8 Science Parrots: The Highlight Reel 9 World Between Borders: American Migrant Crisis 10 Health In Love and Loss © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Foreign   New Coalition Takes On India’s Two Biggest Parties. Advertisement   NEW DELHI — Eleven political parties, including seven regional parties, formed a coalition on Tuesday in hopes of drawing voters away from India’s two main national parties in the general elections in May. “We have resolved to come together to present an alternative before the country,” said Prakash Karat, general secretary of Communist Party of India (Marxist), one of the members of the coalition, which is made up of the biggest regional parties in India, like the Samajwadi Party and Janata Dal (United). Mr. Karat condemned the Indian National Congress, which leads the governing coalition in New Delhi, for its corruption scandals and policies, which he called flawed, and accused the main opposition Bharatiya Janata Party, or B.J.P., of trying to divide the country with its Hindu nationalist politics. He said nine parties met in the capital on Tuesday to form the alliance, with the leaders of the two other parties, Biju Janata Dal and Asom Gana Parishad, unable to attend but giving their assent. Sanjay Kaul, the B.J.P. spokesman for the party’s New Delhi chapter, dismissed the new coalition as a nonfactor in the elections. “No front can survive unless it has a magnetic core or a gravitational pull,” he said. “They may coalesce because of situational advantages, but when it comes to a push and a shove, they would surely break down.” The coalition comes at a time when opinion polls conducted by media organizations have suggested that regional political parties could play a major role in forming the next government in case either of the two national parties fall short of an absolute majority in the Lok Sabha, or lower house of Parliament. Currently, the coalition has 92 seats in the lower house. That compares with 201 seats for the Congress party and 112 for the Bharatiya Janata Party. A party or alliance needs to have at least 272 members in the Lok Sabha, which has 543 members, to have any realistic chance of forming the next government. But even if the new coalition, which does not yet have a name, manages to take power, a look at the history of Indian politics shows that such so-called third-front governments – that is, those that are not led by Congress or the B.J.P. — have largely been unstable and unable to complete the full five-year term. One of the early experiments in third-front politics occurred in 1989, when a broad coalition of parties under Janata Dal formed a government under Prime Minister V.P. Singh. But disagreements among allies and the creation of factions led the government to fold in less than a year. Another coalition government was formed, this time under Chandra Shekhar, but this too splintered within a year. In 1996, the same scenes played out when the general elections ended in a fractured mandate. After B.J.P., which emerged as the single largest party with 161 seats, was unable to cobble together a majority in the Lok Sabha, a similar third-front government under Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda of Janata Dal came to power with the support of the Congress party. However, coalition strains again led the government to fall within a year. I.K. Gujral, another Janata Dal leader, was nominated to the prime minister’s post the same year, but he too could not stay in power for long. The government fell the next year and fresh elections were called. Since 1998, leaders of regional parties with prime ministerial ambitions have largely been forced to stand aside, as all central governments have been led by either the Congress party or the B.J.P. “It is my personal opinion that the third front is not at all plausible,” said Subhash Kashyap, an honorary professor at the Center for Policy Research in New Delhi. “It will not have a sizable win in the elections.” He said if the new coalition came to power, it would probably discourage economic development in India because of the inherent instability of such an alliance and the ideologies of the members. “If there is no political stability, there can be no economic reforms,” he said. “If you see the constituents of the third front, some of them are very much against economic reforms.” Rohit Ghosh, vice president and a senior research analyst at Moody’s Investors Service, said in a statement this month that the rise of regional parties would continue to “hamper the efficacy of nationwide policy making, regardless of the political complexion of the eventual central government.” However, he said, a phenomenal showing by any of the country’s major parties would not guarantee economic growth either. How do you think the new coalition will do in the national elections? Please leave your comments below. India’s national elections began April 7 and will continue on nine separate dates until May 12, with results expected to be announced on May 16. The vote is the world’s largest, with 814 million eligible voters set to choose 543 members of the lower house of Parliament. The other two seats will be appointed by the president. This election is widely considered to be India’s most consequential since 1977. India Ink will be moving to the World page of The New York Times. Read more… A memorial ceremony at the Imphal War Cemetery in Manipur to honor the soldiers who died during World War II.Read more… The newly elected prime minister reaches out to the public in a blog post about his first 30 days in office.Read more… Newborns whose mothers are unable to breastfeed are given stored breast milk to protect them from potentially life-threatening infection.Read more… In the final stage of a long decline, Hindustan Motors announced in May that it would suspend production of the Ambassador, a car that was once synonymous with style and status.Read more… This report on India from the journalists of The New York Times and a pool of talented writers in India and beyond provides unbiased, authoritative reporting on the country and its place in the world. India Ink also strives to be a virtual meeting point for discussion of this complex, fast-changing democracy – its politics, economy, culture and everyday life. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Movies   The Carpetbagger. Channels & Shows Home Search Culture Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Get behind the scenes of Hollywood’s awards season, with close-up looks at Oscar-nominated films and exclusive red-carpet access to the hottest actors, actresses and directors. Recent Episodes in The Carpetbagger The Carpetbagger Culture 3:34 Dressing ‘Inherent Vice’ The Carpetbagger Culture 3:01 Patricia Arquette Grows Into ‘Boyhood’ The Carpetbagger Culture 2:09 Sundance in Slow-Mo   Clothes and Character 2:56 Dressing the Hawkings   Clothes and Character 3:36 In ‘Selma,’ Trench Coats Amid Protests The Carpetbagger Culture 2:26 David Oyelowo and ‘Selma’ The Carpetbagger Culture 4:45 Common and John Legend Perform ‘Glory’ The Carpetbagger Culture 3:02 Patti Smith’s Cinematic Lullaby The Carpetbagger Culture 2:22 Big Eyes, Big Lies Show more videos from The Carpetbagger Most Popular 1 Opinion Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics 2 Science Why It’s Hard to Keep the Pounds Off 3 Food How to Cut Up a Whole Chicken 4 U.S. Obama Delivers Howard’s Commencement 5 Opinion Manufacturing China’s Future 6 Movies This Week’s Movies | May 6, 2016 7 World The Killing of Farkhunda 8 Science Parrots: The Highlight Reel 9 World Between Borders: American Migrant Crisis 10 Health In Love and Loss © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Science   The Brain’s Inner Language. Advertisement Advertisement The Map Makers By JAMES GORMAN FEB. 24, 2014 Clay Reid and colleagues are going deep into the mouse brain to decipher the conversations and decisions of neurons. SEATTLE — When Clay Reid decided to leave his job as a professor at Harvard Medical School to become a senior investigator at the Allen Institute for Brain Science in Seattle in 2012, some of his colleagues congratulated him warmly and understood right away why he was making the move. Others shook their heads. He was, after all, leaving one of the world’s great universities to go to the academic equivalent of an Internet start-up, albeit an extremely well- financed, very ambitious one, created in 2003 by Paul Allen, a founder of Microsoft. Still, “it wasn’t a remotely hard decision,” Dr. Reid said. He wanted to mount an all-out investigation of a part of the mouse brain. And although he was happy at Harvard, the Allen Institute offered not only great colleagues and deep pockets, but also an approach to science different from the classic university environment. The institute was already mapping the mouse brain in fantastic detail, and specialized in the large-scale accumulation of information in atlases and databases available to all of science. Now, it was expanding, and trying to merge its semi-industrial approach to data gathering with more traditional science driven by individual investigators, by hiring scientists like Christof Koch from the California Institute of Technology as chief scientific officer in 2011 and Dr. Reid. As a senior investigator, he would lead a group of about 100, and work with scientists, engineers and technicians in other groups. Without the need to apply regularly for federal grants, Dr. Reid could concentrate on one piece of the puzzle of how the brain works. He would try to decode the workings of one part of the mouse brain, the million neurons in the visual cortex, from, as he puts it, “molecules to behavior.” Advertisement There are many ways to map the brain and many kinds of brains to map. Although the ultimate goal of most neuroscience is understanding how human brains work, many kinds of research can’t be done on human beings, and the brains of mice and even flies share common processes with human brains. The work of Dr. Reid, and scientists at Allen and elsewhere who share his approach, is part of a surge of activity in brain research as scientists try to build the tools and knowledge to explain — as well as can ever be explained — how brains and minds work. Besides the Obama administration’s $100 million Brain Initiative and the European Union’s $1 billion, decade-long Human Brain Project, there are numerous private and public research efforts in the United States and abroad, some focusing on the human brain, others like Dr. Reid’s focusing on nonhumans. While the Human Connectome Project, which is spread among several institutions, aims for an overall picture of the associations among parts of the human brain, other scientific teams have set their sights on drilling to deeper levels. For instance, the Connectome Project at Harvard is pursuing a structural map of the mouse brain at a level of magnification that shows packets of neurochemicals at the tips of brain cells. At Janelia Farm, the Virginia research campus of the Howard Hughes Medical Institute, researchers are aiming for an understanding of the complete fly brain — a map of sorts, if a map can be taken to its imaginable limits, including structure, chemistry, genetics and activity. “I personally am inspired by what they’re doing at Janelia,” Dr. Reid said. All these efforts start with maps and enrich them. If Dr. Reid is successful, he and his colleagues will add what you might call the code of a brain process, the language the neurons use to store, transmit and process information for this function. Not that this would be any kind of final answer. In neuroscience, perhaps more than in most other disciplines, every discovery leads to new questions. “With the brain,” Dr. Reid said, “you can always go deeper.” ‘Psychoanalyst’s Kid Probes Brain!’ Dr. Reid, 53, grew up in Boston, in a family with deep roots in medicine. His grandfather taught physiology at Harvard Medical School. “My parents were both psychoanalysts,” he said during an interview last fall, smiling as he imagined a headline for this article, “Psychoanalyst’s Kid Probes Brain!” Advertisement “I pretty much always knew that I wanted to be a scientist,” he said. As an undergraduate at Yale, he majored in physics and philosophy and in mathematics, but in the end decided he didn’t want to be a physicist. Biology was attractive, but he was worried enough about his mathematical bent to talk to one of his philosophy professors about concerns that biology would too fuzzy for him. The professor had some advice. “You really should read Hubel and Wiesel,” he said, referring to David Hubel and Torsten Wiesel, who had just won the Nobel Prize in 1981 for their work showing how binocular vision develops in the brain. He read their work, and when he graduated in 1982, he was convinced that the study of the brain was both hard science and a wide-open field. He went on to an M.D.-Ph.D. program at Cornell Medical College and Rockefeller University, where Dr. Wiesel had his lab (he would go on to be president of Rockefeller). As his studies progressed, Dr. Reid began to have second thoughts about pursuing medicine rather than research. Just a week before he was to commit to a neurology residency, he said, “I ran into a friend from the Wiesel lab and said, ‘Save me.’ ” That plea led to postdoctoral research in the Rockefeller lab. He stayed as a faculty member until moving to Harvard in 1996. Advertisement Mathematics and physics were becoming increasingly important in neurobiology, a trend that has continued, but there was still a certain tension between different mind-sets, he recalled. He found that there were intangible skills involved in biological research. “Good biological intuition was equally important to chops in math and physics,” he said. “Torsten once said to me, ‘You know, Clay, science is not an intelligence test.’ ” Though he didn’t recall that specific comment, Dr. Wiesel said recently that it sounded like something he would have said. “I think there are a lot of smart people who never make it in science. Why is it? What is it that is required in addition?” Intuition is important, he said, “knowing what kind of questions to ask.” And, he said, “the other thing is a passion for getting to the core of the problem.” Advertisement Dr. Reid, he said, was not only smart and full of energy, but also “interested in asking questions that I think can get to the core of a problem.” At Harvard, Dr. Reid worked on the Connectome Project to map the connections between neurons in the mouse brain. The Connectome Project aims at a detailed map, a wiring diagram at a level fantastically more detailed than the work being done to map the human brain with M.R.I. machines. But electron microscopes produce a static picture from tiny slices of preserved brain. Dr. Reid began working on tying function to mapping. He and one of his graduate students, Davi Bock, now at Janelia Farm, linked studies of active mouse brains to the detailed structural images produced by electron microscopes. Dr. Bock said he recalled Dr. Reid as having developed exactly the kind of intuition and “good lab hands” that Dr. Wiesel seemed to be encouraging. He and another graduate student were stumped by a technical problem involving a new technique for studying living brains, and Dr. Reid came by. “Clay got on this bench piled up with components,” Dr. Bock said. “He started plugging and unplugging different power cables. We just stood there watching him, and I was sure he was going to scramble everything.” But he didn’t. Whatever he did worked. FEB. 24, 2014 That was part of the fun of working in the lab, Dr. Bock said, “not that he got it right every time.” But his appreciation for Dr. Reid as a leader and mentor went beyond admiration for his “mad scientist lab hands.” “He has a deep gut level enthusiasm for what’s beautiful and what’s profound in neuroscience, and he’s kind of relentless,” Dr. Bock said. Showing a Mouse a Picture That instinct, enthusiasm and relentlessness will be necessary for his current pursuit. To crack the code of the brain, Dr. Reid said, two fundamental problems must be solved. Advertisement The first is: “How does the machine work, starting with its building blocks, cell types, going through their physiology and anatomy,” he said. That means knowing all the different types of neurons in the mouse visual cortex and their function — information that science doesn’t have yet. It also means knowing what code is used to pass on information. When a mouse sees a picture, how is that picture encoded and passed from neuron to neuron? That is called neural computation. “The other highly related problem is: How does that neural computation create behavior?” he said. How does the mouse brain decide on action based on that input? He imagined the kind of experiment that would get at these deep questions. A mouse might be trained to participate in an experiment now done with primates in which an animal looks at an image. Later, seeing several different images in sequence, the animal presses a lever when the original one appears. Seeing the image, remembering it, recognizing it and pressing the lever might take as long as two seconds and involve activity in several parts of the brain. Understanding those two seconds, Dr. Reid said, would mean knowing “literally what photons hit the retina, what information does the retina send to the thalamus and the cortex, what computations do the neurons in the cortex do and how do they do it, how does that level of processing get sent up to a memory center and hold the trace of that picture over one or two seconds.” Then, when the same picture is seen a second time, “the hard part happens,” he said. “How does the decision get made to say, ‘That’s the one’?” In pursuit of this level of understanding, Dr. Reid and others are gathering chemical, electrical, genetic and other information about what the structure of that part of the mouse brain is and what activity is going on. They will develop electron micrographs that show every neuron and every connection in that part of a mouse brain. That is done on dead tissue. Then they will use several techniques to see what goes on in that part of the brain when a living animal reacts to different situations. “We can record the activity of every single cell in a volume of cortex, and capture the connections,” he said. Advertisement With chemicals added to the brain, the most advanced light microscopes can capture movies of neurons firing. Electrodes can record the electrical impulses. And mathematical analysis of all that may decipher the code in which information is moved around that part of the brain. Dr. Reid says solving the first part of the problem — receiving and analyzing sensory information — might be done in 10 years. An engineer’s precise understanding of everything from photons to action could be more on the order of 20 to 30 years away, and not reachable through the work of the Allen Institute alone. But, he wrote in an email, “the large-scale, coordinated efforts at the institute will get us there faster.” He is studying only one part of one animal’s brain, but, he said, the cortex — the part of the mammalian brain where all this calculation goes on — is something of a general purpose computer. So the rules for one process could explain other processes, like hearing. And the rules for decision-making could apply to many more complicated situations in more complicated brains. Perhaps the mouse visual cortex can be a kind of Rosetta stone for the brain’s code. All research is a gamble, of course, and the Allen Institute’s collaborative approach, while gaining popularity in neuroscience, is not universally popular. Dr. Wiesel said it was “an important approach” that would “provide a lot of useful information.” But, he added, “it won’t necessarily create breakthroughs in our understanding of how the brain works.” “I think the main advances are going to be made by individual scientists working in small groups,” he said. Of course, in courting and absorbing researchers like Dr. Reid, the Allen Institute has been moving away from its broad data-gathering approach toward more focused work by individual investigators. Dr. Bock, his former student, said his experience suggested that Dr. Reid had not only a passion and intensity for research, but a good eye for where science is headed as well. “That’s what Clay does,” he said. “He is really good in that Wayne Gretzky way of skating to where the puck will be.” The Map Makers: Second in a series of articles about scientists behind the new efforts to explore the brain. A version of this article appears in print on February 25, 2014, on page D1 of the New York edition with the headline: The Brain’s Inner Language. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Sports   Clippers Defeat Pelicans. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content Skip to navigation View mobile version The New York Times Pro Basketball|Clippers Defeat Pelicans Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go http://nyti.ms/1k7eRkV Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Supported by Pro Basketball | Sports Briefing Clippers Defeat Pelicans By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSFEB. 24, 2014 Continue reading the main story Share This Page Continue reading the main story Jamal Crawford hit seven 3-point shots on his way to 24 points, and the visiting Los Angeles Clippers beat the New Orleans Pelicans, 123-110. Chris Paul had 19 points and 13 assists in his latest return to New Orleans. ■ Stephen Curry had 19 points, 9 assists and 8 rebounds, and the visiting Golden State Warriors beat the Detroit Pistons, 104-96. The Pistons have lost five of seven since firing Maurice Cheeks as coach. A version of this brief appears in print on February 25, 2014, on page B16 of the New York edition with the headline: Clippers Defeat Pelicans. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Continue reading the main story What's Next Loading... Go to Home Page » Site Index The New York Times Site Index Navigation News World U.S. Politics N.Y. Business Tech Science Health Sports Education Obituaries Today's Paper Corrections Opinion Today's Opinion Op-Ed Columnists Editorials Contributing Writers Op-Ed Contributors Opinionator Letters Sunday Review Taking Note Room for Debate Public Editor Video: Opinion Arts Today's Arts Art & Design ArtsBeat Books Dance Movies Music N.Y.C. Events Guide Television Theater Video: Arts Living Automobiles Crossword Food Education Fashion & Style Health Jobs Magazine N.Y.C. Events Guide Real Estate T Magazine Travel Weddings & Celebrations Listings & More Classifieds Tools & Services Times Topics Public Editor N.Y.C. Events Guide Blogs Multimedia Photography Video NYT Store Times Journeys Subscribe Manage My Account Subscribe Subscribe Times Insider Home Delivery Digital Subscriptions NYT Opinion Crossword Email Newsletters Alerts Gift Subscriptions Corporate Subscriptions Education Rate Mobile Applications Replica Edition International New York Times Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Technology   BlackBerry’s Chief: ‘We Have a Plan’. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos CNBC BlackBerry’s Chief: ‘We Have a Plan’ Feb. 25, 2014 | 1:27 In an interview with CNBC, John Chen, BlackBerry’s chief executive, commented on his company’s growth plans from the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona. Related: blogpost: Keyboard and Function Keys Returning to BlackBerry Phones Show More PlaylistUp Next in CNBC Next →   CNBC3:12 Buffett Defends Coca-Cola Investment   CNBC4:40 Questioning an Antitrust Case   CNBC5:01 Walgreens, Theranos and Bad Blood   CNBC5:02 E.C.B. on Criticism From Germany   CNBC3:39 Ex-Wells Fargo Chief on Banking Sector   CNBC8:52 Hedge Fund on a Shake-Up at Yahoo   CNBC4:27 Biden on Carried Interest Tax   CNBC5:43 Theranos Chief Under Fire   CNBC5:15 S.U.V.s Move Into the Luxury Market   CNBC10:26 Treasury Secretary on Tax Inversions © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Travel   An Inside Look at Cooking and Dining in Tel Aviv. Advertisement Six years ago, Tel Aviv tapped into its inner voyeur when it joined the international movement “Houses from Within,” a festival in which residents of some of the city’s most interesting (and opulent) homes fling open their doors and allow the public to visit. Now the city has created its own spin-off event, with some of Tel Aviv’s most prestigious chefs opening their kitchen doors and allowing snoops and snackers alike a chance to see the workings of a restaurant from the inside. Open Restaurants, which had a test run last July and will offer its first full-fledged event beginning Wednesday, includes kitchen sneak-peeks, culinary workshops and chef-guided tours of Tel Aviv’s open-air market. “We’re going to try to show you the restaurant from the inside, how we get our supplies here, how we cook it, and later of course, how we eat it,” said Orel Kimchi, chef and owner at Popina, one of the 70 restaurants hosting events over the four-day festival. On Mr. Kimchi’s docket for the event is a trip to the local fishmonger, spectators in tow, where he will purchase a fresh drum fish and then offer a master class on scaling it, filleting it and preparing it five ways. Other workshops include ice cream making, learning the science of pizza dough and a chance to peer into the kitchen during a frenzied service at theTel Aviv hot spot Brasserie. Workshops range from  50 shekels (about $15) to  300  shekels ($88), most in Hebrew with a select few offered in English. Reservations and more information are at open-restaurants.co.il. In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
U.S.   Clinton Makes Kentucky Appearance. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Video Clinton Makes Kentucky Appearance Feb. 26, 2014 | 1:08 The former president spoke at a fund-raiser in Louisville for Alison Lundergan Grimes, a Democratic Senate candidate. Related: article: Ex-President Ventures Where Some Might Not Show More PlaylistUp Next in Video Next → Op-Docs: Season 5 9:23 I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked   Video1:08 Hitting all the Right Notes Op-Docs: Season 5 13:33 Manufacturing China’s Future Op-Docs: Season 5 6:05 Fashion vs. Art   Video0:56 Excerpt: ‘The Father’   Video0:33 Excerpt: ‘Exit Strategy’ Op-Docs: Season 5 7:19 A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race   Video1:58 Excerpt: ‘Antlia Pneumatica’   News Clips: Europe1:20 Officials React to Panama Papers   News Clips: Europe3:47 Mossack Fonseca on Data Leak © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Arts   Marvel TV Series to Film in New York. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Video Marvel TV Series to Film in New York Feb. 26, 2014 | 0:57 Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo helps announce the scheduled filming of a TV series based on Marvel characters in New York. Show More PlaylistUp Next in Video Next → Op-Docs: Season 5 9:23 I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked   Video1:08 Hitting all the Right Notes Op-Docs: Season 5 13:33 Manufacturing China’s Future Op-Docs: Season 5 6:05 Fashion vs. Art   Video0:56 Excerpt: ‘The Father’   Video0:33 Excerpt: ‘Exit Strategy’ Op-Docs: Season 5 7:19 A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race   Video1:58 Excerpt: ‘Antlia Pneumatica’   News Clips: Europe1:20 Officials React to Panama Papers   News Clips: Europe3:47 Mossack Fonseca on Data Leak © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Business   Anything Goes. Advertisement By Stanley Newman Feb 27, 2014 The New York Times Crossword is available through subscription only. THURSDAY’S PUZZLE —#8212; Stanley Newman, the man behind today’s AMAZIN’ crossword, has created a theme set “in a neighborhood bar,” in which four answers together form a sentence you might hear at a local tavern. The sort of place where everybody knows your name — and everyone’s a gossip. Solve the puzzle and you’ll see what I mean. Some answers came as easy as LAY UPS while others took PLENTY of time. The bartender MOE was a gimme (at least for us Simpsons fanatics) and a welcome way to make inroads into the northern half of the puzzle — leading to entries like ENAMEL and FAKE. But the more esoteric clues took quite a while. The enigmatic 2 Down (“formed, as schoolyard teams, say”) was one of the first clues that I read but it was the last that I solved. Did it take anybody else a long time to figure out CHOSE UP? This puzzle also asks a question about the Summer Games, keeping the Olympic spirit going just days after the conclusion of the Sochi festivities. The clue at 37 Down asks for the “locale of three Summer Olympics,” and the answer Stanley is looking for is broader than just a city — it is the whole continent of ASIA, home to the host cities of Tokyo (1964), Seoul (1988) and Beijing (2008). Stanley has a lot to say about his construction, so I’ll let him have a word. Inspiration for this puzzle came from my 30-year-old son Marc (whom Will bounced on his knee at my home about 27 years ago), who sells items on eBay for his London office-salvage business. One of his recent items was a plaque with the theme message, for which only the original WE’LL needed to be changed to WE WILL to break perfectly. By dumb luck, Will was short of non-rebus Thursdays, so it appears today only 19 days after he OK’d it. I clue puzzles hard by having as many “new” clues as possible, requiring some thought and reasoning to solve, rather than ones that can be solved at sight by solvers with good memories. Most of the new factual clues here come from Internet research, such as 52A, 63A, 8D and 34D. An added requirement to my harder clues is that only general knowledge should be required to understand them, even if the fact itself isn’t well-known. For example, anyone from New York should know that AMAZIN (14A) is associated with the Mets, so it shouldn’t be surprising that a website all about the Mets is called Amazin’ Avenue. One other clue nicety here that might not be obvious: a factual balance between new pop culture (like 18A, 55A), older (40A, 25D), and historical (42A, 10D). I made sure that all my factual references could be quickly and authoritatively verified with Google, and passed that info along to Will with the puzzle. While some my new clues for uncapitalized answers also come from Web research (“Time-stretching” for 41D SLO-MO came from a Wikipedia article), I can often think of something fresh by just letting my mind wander. That’s where I got 56A and 1D, for instance. Will is obviously onboard with all of this thinking, since he kept about three-quarters of my clues, including all the ones cited above. In the 1,000-plus crosswords I’ve constructed and the 5,000-plus I’ve edited (for the New York newspaper Newsday and PuzzleSocial.com) since adopting Crossword Compiler in 2000, I’ve found that with careful grid patterning it’s never necessary to use obscurities, even for wide-open grids such as the 72-worder here. This sometimes requires that I check Google News and Google Books, to be sure that words I think are in common current use actually are. I look forward to the day where this fussiness will be standard procedure for constructors, so we can finally bid the OLEOs, OLIOs and ANILs of crosswordese an unfond farewell. Anyone wishing to throw bouquets or stones at me, or a constructor wishing to learn more about my “crud-free” approach to puzzlemaking, is welcome to contact me through my website www.StanXwords.com. For today’s song of the day, here’s “Anything Goes” by Cole PORTER: What did you think? Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. David Kahn puts us through the wringer.Read more… Emily Cox and Henry Rathvon offer us a challenging cryptic crossword puzzle.Read more… A place for solvers to discuss and ask questions about the “A Little Variety” suite of puzzles.Read more… Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Food   Cooking Techniques: Frosting a Cake. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Cooking Techniques Cooking Techniques: Frosting a Cake Feb. 27, 2014 | 1:33 Make sure every bite of cake includes an even amount of frosting. Show More PlaylistUp Next in Cooking Techniques ← Previous   Cooking Techniques0:23 Cooking Techniques: Chopping Chives   Cooking Techniques0:31 Cooking Techniques: Crimping Pie Dough   Cooking Techniques0:48 Cooking Techniques: Rolling Pie Dough   Cooking Techniques0:23 Cooking Techniques: Zesting Citrus Fruit   Cooking Techniques0:32 Cooking Techniques: Preparing Ribs   Cooking Techniques0:20 Cooking Techniques: Sautéing   Cooking Techniques0:49 Cooking Techniques: Cutting Eggplant   Cooking Techniques0:27 Cooking Techniques: Steaming Vegetables   Cooking Techniques0:45 Cooking Techniques: Stemming a Cabbage   Cooking Techniques0:57 Cooking Techniques: Cutting a Mango   Now Playing Cooking Techniques1:33 Cooking Techniques: Frosting a Cake   Cooking Techniques0:26 Cooking Techniques: Cleaning Mushrooms   Cooking Techniques1:03 Cooking Techniques: Cutting Up a Chicken   Cooking Techniques0:42 Techniques: Filleting a Fish   Cooking Techniques0:29 Cooking Techniques: Mincing Sage © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Foreign   Pushing for a Law Against Domestic Violence in China. Advertisement Last Thanksgiving, Kim Lee came down the stairs in her apartment in Beijing to see her former husband, Li Yang, standing in the living room. “I screamed,” she said. The couple had divorced nine months earlier in a blaze of publicity, after Mr. Li, the celebrity founder of Crazy English, a language school they ran together, admitted to physically abusing his American wife. Chinese women rarely publicize violence at the hands of their partners, but Ms. Lee posted images of her injuries online. Her forthrightness won her praise from women’s advocates as well as many ordinary Chinese, though some reacted with fury at how she lifted the lid on a sensitive topic. Ms. Lee’s experiences since then, however, have bolstered activists’ arguments that China is in urgent need of a national law on domestic violence. In interviews, Ms. Lee, a teacher, said that after they separated in 2011, Mr. Li more than once threatened her in text messages. “For our kids, you’d better pay attention to your safety!!!” read one message, she said. Another: “You need me to beat you again to make you better, you greedy, American psycho.” Mr. Li was “very busy” and would not respond to a detailed question list or otherwise comment, said his assistant, Anson Ke. So on her divorce, Ms. Lee applied for, and was granted, a protection order, the first reported in Beijing. The court order was for only three months and not detailed, simply warning Mr. Li that he would be arrested if he resorted to violence against her again. “But it did in fact protect me,” Ms. Lee said in an interview. Once he threatened to beat her to death, she reminded him that he could go to jail and he backed off, she said. “What it does is take out that painful step of having to get evidence” of an attack, which includes getting a hospital report and persuading the police to file a report, something difficult to do. “I just report the violence, and he’s dealt with,” she said. Last May, however, the order expired. And since then, despite multiple applications to the court, she has been unable to secure another. Activists say her situation illustrates why laws are needed that would define domestic violence, nixing the common argument that it is a “private matter,” raising the problem in the public eye, giving courts, the police, hospitals and other social organizations a clear legal mandate to assist victims, and standardizing important measures like protection orders. Some, issued elsewhere in the country, have ordered the perpetrator to keep a distance from the victim, but the approach is piecemeal. Currently, the Marriage Law and the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Interests of Women outlaw domestic violence, but they are vague, activists say. “There are too many systemic problems, too many loopholes. It’s just too easy to do it,” said Feng Yuan, a leading feminist and a founder of the Anti-Domestic Violence Network, which has campaigned for a comprehensive law for 15 years. Figures of the scale of the problem vary. Last year, Tan Lin, an official at the All-China Women’s Federation, said that 25 percent of women experienced violence in their marriage. But a study last year by Partners for Prevention, a United Nations program, found that 52 percent of about 1,000 Chinese men told researchers that they had been violent toward a woman. And protection orders, considered a crucial method of combating domestic violence worldwide, are still experimental in China. Courts try to keep them quiet, concerned that without the authority of a law and an established system of practical enforcement, they may fail, and the court may lose face, feminists say. Only recently did activists discover that another order was issued in Beijing several months before Ms. Lee’s. “Ms. Lee’s problems show that China needs to formalize protection orders,” said Ms. Feng. Because when it comes to violent partners issuing threats, “there is no law that says that judges must solve this problem.” “The courts are afraid of being overrun by applicants and of being unable to enforce the orders and therefore becoming a mockery, with the police not cooperating,” she said. In 2012, the National People’s Congress took proposals for a law defining and outlawing domestic violence into its legislative program. Every year, there have been a few deputies who try to push it forward. But after 15 years of lobbying, activists like Ms. Feng believe it’s still very low on the government’s agenda. “A lot of people trivialize the problem, but it’s not a trivial thing,” Ms. Feng said. Many countries, including in Asia, have such a law, making China a laggard. In China, action is “too slow,” she said. “It’s just too, too slow!” This year, feminists are gearing up to lobby again at the congress, which convenes next week. In 2003, the network submitted a draft law. Later, the All-China Women’s Federation, a government body, also submitted one. Ms. Feng does not expect a law this year. Maybe next year, if things move fast, she said. And 2015 is the 20th anniversary of the United Nations’ Fourth World Conference on Women, a landmark event held in Beijing that declared: “Women’s rights are human rights.” Despite the sense of urgency she and other women’s advocates feel, she says it’s important to get a good law, even if it takes time. “The question now is, How will they draft it? What are their priorities?” Ms. Feng said. Would, for example, protection orders be part of it? With the legislative process in China largely a black box, feminists can only hope to exert indirect influence. “We don’t have formal lobbyists like in the United States,” Ms. Feng said. She singled out three groups of people to approach: state leaders, heads of departments involved in drafting laws, and researchers and expert advisers. As a civil society organization, the network lacks access to the first group and only rarely can influence the second, but it can reach the third. The women’s federation has access to the first two; its leader, Shen Yueyue, is also a state leader. It comes down to a question of political will, said Ms. Feng. “I’d say there are just a handful of groups willing to pursue this issue.” Meanwhile, absent court protection and a law spelling out the crime, Ms. Lee worries. “He entered my home in the middle of the night,” she said. “I felt this was enough to warrant another application, since he obviously keeps threatening, scaring and trying to pressure me.” Her latest application was turned down on Dec. 23. She says she will keep trying. Sinosphere, the China blog of The New York Times, delivers intimate, authoritative coverage of the planet's most populous nation and its relationship with the rest of the world. Drawing on timely, engaging dispatches from The Times’ distinguished team of China correspondents, this blog brings readers into the debates and discussions taking place inside a fast-changing country and details the cultural, economic and political developments shaping the lives of 1.3 billion people. Some called on the government to send troops to the Middle East in retaliation to an Islamic State killing, while others cautioned that such a move could invite terrorism at home.Read more… The dissidents had won official recognition as refugees and had been previously detained in China for their activism, Chris Buckley reports.Read more… Human rights advocates listened with a mixture of incredulity and derision to the delegation’s responses on interrogation, Nick Cumming-Bruce reports. Read more… In the Philippines for an Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit, President Obama urged China to halt military activities on the disputed islands, Michael D. Shear reports. Read more… The dead, including women and children, were said to have been involved in a knife attack in September that left 50 people dead at a mine near the Kyrgyzstan border, Javier C. Hernández reports. Read more… Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Movies   Clip: 'Lone Survivor'. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Video Clip: 'Lone Survivor' Feb. 26, 2014 | 0:46 A scene from the film, directed by Peter Berg, with sound editing by Wylie Stateman. Show More PlaylistUp Next in Video Next → Op-Docs: Season 5 9:23 I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked   Video1:08 Hitting all the Right Notes Op-Docs: Season 5 13:33 Manufacturing China’s Future Op-Docs: Season 5 6:05 Fashion vs. Art   Video0:56 Excerpt: ‘The Father’   Video0:33 Excerpt: ‘Exit Strategy’ Op-Docs: Season 5 7:19 A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race   Video1:58 Excerpt: ‘Antlia Pneumatica’   News Clips: Europe1:20 Officials React to Panama Papers   News Clips: Europe3:47 Mossack Fonseca on Data Leak © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Science   Test Is Improved Predictor of Fetal Disorders Sign Up for the Running Email. Advertisement A test that analyzes fetal DNA found in a pregnant woman’s blood proved much more accurate in screening for Down syndrome and another chromosomal disorder than the now-standard blood test, a new study has found. The promising results may change how prenatal screening for genetic diseases is done, though the test is costly and generally not yet covered by insurance for women at low risk. The study, published on Wednesday in The New England Journal of Medicine, found that the fetal DNA test was 10 times better in predicting cases of Down syndrome than the standard blood test and ultrasound screening, and five times better in predicting the other disorder, Trisomy 18. It also greatly reduced the number of false-positive results. It could prevent many women who would otherwise get the standard blood test from needing to confirm positive results with invasive tests like amniocentesis or chorionic villus sampling, which can be stressful, much more costly and carry small risks of miscarriage. “Nine out of 10 women who are currently being referred for further testing would not need invasive tests,” said the lead author of the study, Dr. Diana Bianchi, the executive director of the Mother Infant Research Institute at Tufts Medical Center’s Floating Hospital for Children. A positive result on the DNA screening would still need to be confirmed with invasive tests, because in more than half the cases in which the newer test predicted a disorder, there was no chromosomal abnormality. But a negative result would provide confidence that these two major chromosomal disorders are absent. “It’s a better mousetrap, there’s no doubt about that,” said Dr. Michael Greene, director of obstetrics at Massachusetts General Hospital and co-author of an editorial about the study. “If the test is normal, the overwhelming probability is that your fetus is normal. There will be far fewer women who will be encouraged to have invasive testing, and, as a result, far fewer miscarriages.” The screen analyzes blood from women who are at least 10 weeks pregnant. At that point, about 10 percent of DNA in the blood will be fetal DNA from the placenta, Dr. Bianchi said. Dr. Bianchi is a paid advisory board member for Illumina, one of the laboratories that performs the test, which is known as the cell-free DNA test because the fetal DNA floats freely in the mother’s blood, not inside a cell. Illumina, which is based in San Diego, financed the study. Dr. Greene, an associate editor at The New England Journal of Medicine, said that the study “would sort of be purer from an academic perspective if somebody else pays for it,” but that companies are “the ones that are going to finance the research to get it to where it’s marketable.” He added, “We can’t have our cake and eat it too.” He said the journal had rejected other cell-free DNA studies, but considered this one well done. Experts said they expected the test would ultimately be offered to all pregnant women, but noted limitations. The test, costing $500 to $2,000, is not now typically covered by insurance for women at low risk for having babies with chromosomal abnormalities. Nor is it regulated by the Food and Drug Administration, because it is considered “laboratory developed,” to be used by the lab that created them and not sold to other labs or companies, Dr. Greene said. The test also appears to work inconsistently in very obese women. And it screens only for major chromosomal disorders and some sex-linked diseases. “This is a very good screening test for what it’s designed to screen for,” said Dr. Ignatia B. Van den Veyver, a prenatal geneticist at Baylor College of Medicine. But, she added, “we’re concerned that if women stop there, they miss the opportunity to have a diagnostic test like amnio that can detect other chromosomal abnormalities.” For now, this new technology, which became available in 2011, is primarily used for women deemed more likely to have babies with abnormalities because they are age 35 or older or have other risk factors. At least four companies offer the tests. Medical organizations have not recommended them for other women because of a lack of data showing they work in the general population. The new study, which involved 1,914 pregnant women from diverse backgrounds at 21 medical sites around the country, is the first large study to evaluate the cell-free DNA screen in average American women. Most women in the study were younger than 30, had conceived naturally, and were pregnant with their first child. Dr. Deborah A. Driscoll, a professor of obstetrics and gynecology at the University of Pennsylvania, who was not involved in the research, said that given this new evidence, “this should be a test that we can offer women universally.” The women received standard screening from their doctors, a blood test that identifies proteins or other biological markers associated with chromosomal disorders. Some also got ultrasounds examining the fetus’s neck for fluid associated with Down syndrome. Separately, and without knowing the results of the standard tests, technicians at the Illumina lab screened samples of the women’s blood for three copies of chromosomes instead of the normal two, seeking to identify chromosomes for Down syndrome, and for Trisomies 18 and 13, often fatal disorders. Researchers later checked whether babies were born with or without these conditions. In the study, the rate of false positives for Down syndrome was 0.3 percent with the cell-free DNA screening, while the rate for standard screening was 3.6 percent, 12 times higher. The false-positive rate for Trisomy 18 was 0.2 percent with the DNA screening; the rate with standard screening was three times that. Not everyone received standard screens for Trisomy 13, so complete comparisons could not be made. The DNA screen was correct in predicting Down syndrome 45.5 percent of the time, while the rate for standard screens was 4.2 percent. The DNA screen accurately predicted babies with Trisomy 18 almost 41 percent of the time, five times better than standard screening, whose rate was 8 percent. The cell-free DNA screen worked equally well in first, second or third trimesters, and in high- and low-risk women.” Since positive tests are often wrong, women should get positive findings verified with amniocentesis or C.V.S., experts aid. “The greatest risk is that the test will be oversold or over-interpreted and that women won’t take the step of an invasive diagnostic procedure before they do something irreversible like terminate a pregnancy,” Dr. Greene said. In the study, one of the five fetuses with Down syndrome was aborted, one of two with Trisomy 18 was stillborn, and the sole fetus with Trisomy 13 died in utero. The other five chromosomally abnormal babies were born alive. Jennifer Fontaine, 29, of Groveland, Mass., was not in the study, but chose cell-free DNA screening last year after standard screening showed an elevated risk of Trisomy 18 in her fetus. She was offered amniocentesis, but she said, “I wanted the noninvasive procedure.” Her DNA screen was negative for Trisomy 18, and her daughter, Morgan, was born healthy. Andrew Pollack contributed reporting. A version of this article appears in print on 02/27/2014, on page A17 of the NewYork edition with the headline: New DNA Test Better at Predicting Two Disorders in Babies, a Study Finds. Your health questions answered by Times journalists and experts. Your Questions | All » Get Well's Running email for practical tips, expert advice, exclusive content and a bit of motivation delivered to your inbox every week to help you on your running journey. Coming soon. How much do you know about the amazing things that go on in your gut? Take our quiz to find out about the creepy, crawly critters living in your home. What surface is the most friendly to the flu virus? Where’s the best place to stand when you’re talking to a sick person? How does sleep affect health, relationships and well-being? The “Reading the Mind in the Eyes Test” measures ability to understand others’ emotional states. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   DeRozan’s Late Run Leads Raptors Over the Cavaliers. Advertisement Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSFEB. 25, 2014 DeMar DeRozan scored 16 of his 33 points in the fourth quarter, and the visiting Toronto Raptors won for the sixth time in seven games, defeating the injury-riddled Cleveland Cavaliers, 99-93, on Tuesday night. Terrence Ross hit a 3-pointer with 3 minutes 2 seconds left to put Toronto ahead by a point. DeRozan dunked on a baseline drive and added two free throws to give the Raptors a 94-91 lead with 1:23 remaining. He hit three more free throws in the final 27 seconds to put away the game. Kyrie Irving had 25 points and 9 assists for the Cavaliers. He played 45 minutes, including the entire second half, because of Cleveland’s depleted roster. The Cavaliers played without center Anderson Varejao (back) and guards Dion Waiters (knee) and C. J. Miles (ankle). BULLS 107, HAWKS 103 Mike Dunleavy scored 22 points, Joakim Noah had 20 points and 12 rebounds, and visiting Chicago held off Atlanta. Carlos Boozer had 17 points and 11 rebounds for the Bulls, and Kirk Hinrich scored 14 points, including six free throws in the final 44 seconds. The Bulls have won six of seven. Advertisement The Bulls led most of the second half but never pushed the advantage to double figures, and DeMarre Carroll sank a 3-pointer with 1:03 remaining to give Atlanta a 103-101 lead. But with 43.2 seconds left, officials reviewed and confirmed a questionable foul called on Carroll during a 3-point attempt by Hinrich. He made three free throws to put Chicago in front. WIZARDS 115, MAGIC 106 John Wall scored 27 points and Trevor Ariza added 22 to lead host Washington to its fourth straight win. Ariza hit all five of his 3-point attempts for the Wizards, who made 10 of 16 3-pointers. Marcin Gortat added 21 points and 10 rebounds. The Wizards, playing without Nene, who sprained a knee ligament on Sunday, moved to one game above .500. Victor Oladipo scored 26 points for the Magic, who lost their 16th consecutive road game. PACERS 118, LAKERS 98 Paul George scored 12 of his 20 points in the third quarter, Evan Turner had 13 points in his Pacers’ debut, and Indiana won at home. Kent Bazemore finished with a career-high 23 points and Jodie Meeks added 15 for the Lakers, who have the worst record in the West. The Lakers kept the game close for a time, trailing by 59-58 early in the third. But George scored 10 points in a decisive 14-5 spurt that gave Indiana an 80-68 lead with 2:58 left in the period. T’WOLVES 110, SUNS 101 Kevin Love had 33 points and 13 rebounds, and Minnesota rallied in the fourth quarter to win at Phoenix. Markieff Morris had 24 for the Suns. Advertisement BLAZERS 100, NUGGETS 95 J. J. Hickson had 25 rebounds and 16 points for Denver, but it was not enough as visiting Portland won behind Damian Lillard’s 31 points. A version of this article appears in print on February 26, 2014, on page B12 of the New York edition with the headline: DeRozan’s Late Run Leads Raptors Over the Cavaliers. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Travel   Lego Pieces Together a New Act. Advertisement While the thought of 3 million Legos may have parents instinctively rubbing the soles of their feet, executives at the Legoland park in Carlsbad, Calif., are smiling. They’ve used as many plastic pieces to create the Lego Movie Experience, a new attraction at the park that capitalizes on the recent success of Warner Brothers’ “The Lego Movie,” which has topped box office sales in its first two weekends and is quickly approaching the $200 million mark in domestic sales, according to Box Office Mojo. With assistance from filmmakers, the park’s master model builder team has recreated Middle Zealand, the Old West, Cloud Cuckooland, the Octane Tower and more than a thousand other models that inspired the story of the animated movie, in which Emmet, an average Lego figure, is mistakenly drafted to help save the world from an evil tyrant. The models, built using 91 new, rare, discontinued and current Lego sets, took more than 2,000 hours to assemble at Warner Brothers Studios in Burbank and another six weeks to reassemble in the park. The walk-through attraction also features a soundstage broadcasting interviews with actors from the movie, including Will Ferrell, Elizabeth Banks, Liam Neeson and Morgan Freeman, along with clips from the film. Costumed characters from the movie also roam the area to take pictures with guests. Sets to build at home are sure to be on sale nearby. In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
U.S.   Views on Voting and the Political Parties. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content The New York Times U.S.|Views on Voting and the Political Parties Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go http://nyti.ms/1pu5j7A Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement U.S. Views on Voting and the Political Parties FEB. 26, 2014 Related Article How do the Republicans and the Democrats differ? How are they similar? The New York Times and CBS News asked Americans for their views on various issues, their attitudes toward the parties and their opinion of a number of possible presidential candidates. From Feb. 19 to 23, 1,644 adults were polled by telephone. The margin of sampling error is plus or minus three percentage points. The possible error is larger for subgroups; for example, it is plus or minus six points for all Republicans and plus or minus nine points for Democrats under 45. Results are not shown for Republican liberals or Democratic conservatives because there are not enough of those respondents to examine their views separately. * Based on registered voters only. Views on Voting and the Political Parties Show responses from All Adults▼ All adults Republicans Democrats Independents Republican Moderates Republican Conservatives Independent Liberals Independent Moderates Independent Conservatives Democratic Liberals Democratic Moderates Republicans 18-44 Democrats 18-44 Independents 18-44 Republicans 45+ Democratic 45+ Independents 45+ All adults Republicans Democrats Independents Republican Moderates Republican Conservatives Independent Liberals Independent Moderates Independent Conservatives Democratic Liberals Democratic Moderates Republicans 18-44 Democrats 18-44 Independents 18-44 Republicans 45+ Democratic 45+ Independents 45+ State of country Economic issues View of the parties Elections Voting & issues Addressing the needs of voters Other issues Possible 2016 candidates State of country Do you approve or disapprove of the way Barack Obama is handling his job as president? Do you approve or disapprove of the way Barack Obama is handling foreign policy? Do you approve or disapprove of the way Barack Obama is handling the economy? Which comes closest to your feelings about the Obama presidency so far? Do you approve or disapprove of the way Congress is handling its job? Are things in this country going in the right direction or have things gotten off on the wrong track? Which comes closest to your feelings about the way things are going in Washington? Do you approve or disapprove of the way John A. Boehner is handling his job as speaker of the House of Representatives? Which is better for the country? Should the Democrats and Republicans compromise some of their positions in order to get things done, or stick to their positions even if it means not getting as much done? Economic issues How would you rate the condition of the national economy these days? As you may know, Congress reached an agreement to raise the debt ceiling and fund the federal government until March of next year. Do you approve or disapprove of this agreement? Is the distribution of money and wealth in this country fair? How concerned are you about your income not keeping up with the cost of living? Should any plan to reduce the federal budget deficit include only tax increases, or only spending cuts, or a combination of both? Are the benefits from Social Security and Medicare worth the cost of these programs for taxpayers? View of the parties What is your opinion of the Republican Party? What is your opinion of the Democratic Party? These days, do you think the Republican Party is mostly nominating candidates who are: These days, do you think the Democratic Party is mostly nominating candidates who are: Does the Republican Party have the same priorities for the country as you have? Does the Democratic Party have the same priorities for the country as you have? What is your opinion of the Tea Party movement? Does the Tea Party movement have too much influence, too little influence, or the right amount of influence in the Republican Party? When you think about the future of the Republican Party, do you feel: When you think about the future of the Democratic Party, do you feel: Elections How much attention have you been paying to the 2014 election campaign? * How likely is it that you will vote in the 2014 election for Congress in November? * If the 2014 election for U.S. House of Representatives were being held today, would you vote for the Republican candidate or the Democratic candidate in your district? * Would you prefer your party nominate a candidate who agrees with your positions on most issues or a candidate who has the best chance to win in November? Would you consider voting for a Democratic candidate for Congress? Would you consider voting for a Republican candidate for Congress? Voting & issues Which comes closest to your view about global warming? Is it possible you would ever vote for a candidate who does NOT share your views on global warming? Which comes closest to your view about illegal immigrants who are living in the U.S.? Is it possible you would ever vote for a candidate who does NOT share your views on the nation's immigration system? Should it be legal or not legal for same sex couples to marry? Should laws regarding whether same-sex marriage is legal or not be determined by the federal government or left to each individual state government to decide? Is it possible you would ever vote for a candidate who does NOT share your views on same-sex marriage? Do you favor or oppose raising the minimum wage to $10.10? Is it possible you would ever vote for a candidate who does NOT share your views on raising the minimum wage? Which of these comes closest to your view about abortion? Is it possible you would ever vote for a candidate who does NOT share your views on abortion? Which comes closest to your view about the 2010 health care law? Is it possible you would ever vote for a candidate who does NOT share your views on the 2010 health care law? Addressing the needs of voters Should the Republican Party do more to address the needs and concerns of women voters? Should the Democratic Party do more to address the needs and concerns of women voters? Should the Republican Party do more to address the needs and concerns of Hispanic voters? Should the Democratic Party do more to address the needs and concerns of Hispanic voters? Should the Republican Party do more to address the needs and concerns of big business? Should the Democratic Party do more to address the needs and concerns of big business? Should the Republican Party do more to address the needs and concerns of gun owners? Should the Democratic Party do more to address the needs and concerns of gun owners? Should the Republican Party do more to address the needs and concerns of middle class voters? Should the Democratic Party do more to address the needs and concerns of middle class voters? Other issues Should the use of marijuana be legal? Should laws covering the sale of guns be made more strict, less strict, or kept as they are now? Should the federal government fund prekindergarten programs for all children nationwide, or do you think it should be left to each individual state government to decide? In its efforts to fight terrorism, has the U.S. government gone too far in infringing on people's privacy? Should the United States take the leading role among all other countries in the world in trying to solve international conflicts? Do you favor or oppose the U.S. using drones to carry out missile attacks against suspected terrorists in foreign countries? Possible 2016 candidates Would you like to see Joe Biden run for president of the United States in 2016? Would you like to see Jeb Bush run for president of the United States in 2016? Would you like to see Chris Christie run for president of the United States in 2016? Would you like to see Hillary Rodham Clinton run for president of the United States in 2016? Would you like to see Ted Cruz run for president of the United States in 2016? Would you like to see Andrew Cuomo run for president of the United States in 2016? Would you like to see Martin O'Malley run for president of the United States in 2016? Would you like to see Rand Paul run for president of the United States in 2016? Would you like to see Marco Rubio run for president of the United States in 2016? Would you like to see Elizabeth Warren run for president of the United States in 2016? Favorable Group Share From Feb. 19 to 23, 1,644 adults were polled by telephone. The margin of sampling error is plus or minus three percentage points. The possible error is larger for subgroups; for example, it is plus or minus six points for all Republicans and plus or minus nine points for Democrats under 45. Results are not shown for Republican liberals or Democratic conservatives because there are not enough of those respondents to examine their views separately. * Based on registered voters only. Related Multimedia Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Business   Turn Up the Music. Advertisement By Martin Ashwood-Smith Feb 28, 2014 The New York Times Crossword is available through subscription only. FRIDAY’S PUZZLE — Today’s puzzle from Martin Ashwood-Smith may be themeless, but it still has a fair number of references to music. We have HIGH NOTES soaring at the opera with 23 Across, the Hungarian composer known as ABBE Liszt at 43 Across and the pop singer AARON CARTER at 27 Down. It’s an all-out random grab bag of musical styles. There’s even a clue about a FLAUTIST. That particular musician, honored with a spot at 28 Down, is Sir James Galway, and it is noteworthy that his name is the second occurrence of the word “Galway” today. The other comes at 1 Down, with the clue “From Galway, maybe” for IRISH. This puzzle won me over, as the good ones always do, with smart clues. There’s QED for “Last thing seen by a proofreader” and “Text with Numbers” for TORAH. But my favorite had to be “Carlito’s way,” breaking out of the Italian with VIA. The toughest and most rewarding parts of the grid were the daunting 15-letter answers in the middle, and Martin, our constructor, has something to say about that. Who needs indie puzzles with their fancy new phrases and risqué words, when you can get a delightful disease-oriented 15-letter entry like MALARIA PARASITE in one of my New York Times crosswords? All kidding aside, I was hesitant about sending this puzzle to Will, precisely because of this 15-letter entry. Fortunately (for me), Will didn’t seem to have a problem with it, and I hope most solvers feel the same way! For today’s video, a clip of 1972 hit “Back Stabbers” by The OJAYS: What did you think? Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. David Kahn puts us through the wringer.Read more… Emily Cox and Henry Rathvon offer us a challenging cryptic crossword puzzle.Read more… A place for solvers to discuss and ask questions about the “A Little Variety” suite of puzzles.Read more… Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Education   The Tenure Pipeline at Harvard Business School Harvard Case Study: Gender Equity. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content The New York Times Education|The Tenure Pipeline at Harvard Business School Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go http://nyti.ms/1cqTsOM Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Education The Tenure Pipeline at Harvard Business School Harvard Business School says it wants to improve the gender balance among faculty members, but it is far from that goal without extensive hiring. FEB. 27, 2014 Harvard Case Study: Gender Equity An aggressive program intended to boost female success brought improvements, but also resentment and uncertainty. Related story: Harvard Business School Case Study: Gender Equity More on NYTimes.com Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Foreign   Questioning a Rising Star's Exoneration. Advertisement Advertisement By MANU JOSEPHFEB. 27, 2014 NEW DELHI — A “clean chit,” in most of the English-speaking world, may bring to mind a blank piece of paper of inexplicable purpose. But in India it very clearly means the exoneration of a public figure by an investigating agency. Probably the most famous “clean chit” was issued last year by a special investigation team to Narendra Modi, clearing the way for the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party to nominate him — days before the advent of an inauspicious period in the Hindu calendar — as its prime ministerial candidate for the general elections due this summer. The team, appointed by the Supreme Court, had investigated the allegations that Mr. Modi was complicit in the communal riots of 2002 in the western state of Gujarat, in which more than a thousand people were killed. He was then, as he is now, the state’s chief minister. The manner in which the team and its chief, R.K. Raghavan, a retired police officer, conducted the investigation has been contentious. Now, a book by the journalist Manoj Mitta, “The Fiction of Fact-Finding,” accuses Mr. Raghavan of going to great lengths to shield Mr. Modi and of ignoring a wide spectrum of disturbing circumstantial evidence. One of the intriguing revelations of the book is the approximate time when Mr. Modi, according to his own statement to the investigation team, learned of one of the worst massacres in his state. On the morning of Feb. 28, 2002, in Ahmedabad, Gujarat’s largest city, a Hindu mob began to gather around Gulbarg Society, an affluent, mostly Muslim neighborhood. Fearing for their lives, scores of Muslims took shelter in the home of Ehsan Jafri, a former member of Parliament from the Indian National Congress party. Emboldened by an absence of any substantive police action, a common feature in the first days of the Gujarat riots, the mob began to attack. Even though the buildup and the attack spanned more than six hours and Mr. Jafri called a number of influential people for help, no help arrived. By 3 or 4 p.m., 69 people had died in the assault, including Mr. Jafri, who was hacked to pieces and burned. Advertisement Mr. Modi told the team he only learned of the episode “in the law and order review meeting held in the night.” That was at 8:30 p.m. Mr. Mitta is baffled that the investigation team did not challenge this claim. The Gujarat riots erupted after a horrific episode on the morning of Feb. 27, when a train compartment carrying Hindu pilgrims was burned by a Muslim mob in the town of Godhra. Fifty-eight people perished. Hours later, a low-level government officer, on instructions from his superiors — though it is not yet clear how high the chain went — wrote an unusual letter. It approved the transfer of most of the charred human remains to Jaydeep Patel, then a joint general secretary of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad, or V.H.P., a rightist Hindu organization that would soon be at the center of the attacks against Muslims. The handover was illegal because, by law, only the families of the deceased may take custody of the bodies. Also, not all the bodies had yet been identified. Against the advice of senior police officers, Mr. Modi cleared the transfer of the bodies from Godhra to Ahmedabad, which was already tense and had a history of communal violence. The next day, some of the bodies were carried in a procession by the V.H.P., an event that attracted huge angry mobs that would soon unleash unspeakable violence. Mr. Modi told the investigation team that he did not know the bodies were handed over to the V.H.P., which is actually a sibling of his own party. The two groups are affiliated with the Hindu nationalist group Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, to which Mr. Modi still belongs. Mobile phone records among the court documents point to close coordination between government officials and the V.H.P. in the hours after the burning of the train. Yet Mr. Mitta says the investigation team did not pursue these leads. When I contacted Mr. Raghavan he declined to comment. Since the riots, Mr. Modi’s political power has risen dramatically among the Hindu electorate of Gujarat. In this reward lies, inadvertently, his indictment. A version of this article appears in print on February 27, 2014, in The International New York Times. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Health   Ask Well. Channels & Shows Home Search Health Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Your health questions answered by Tara Parker-Pope and the rest of the team behind the popular Times health blog, Well. Recent Episodes in Ask Well Ask Well Health 0:21 Popcorn Munching Ask Well Health 1:10 Ask Well | What Fish Is Safe to Eat? Ask Well Health 1:03 Ask Well | Are Eggs Good for My Heart? Ask Well Health 2:10 Children and the Risk of Ebola Ask Well Health 3:19 Ask Well | Can Pets Spread Ebola? Ask Well Health 2:54 Ask Well | An Ebola Q. and A. Ask Well Health 1:35 Ask Well | Is Your Sunscreen Safe? Ask Well Health 1:08 Ask Well | Game On, Weekend Warrior Ask Well Health 2:32 Ask Well | Downsides of Taking Truvada? Show more videos from Ask Well Most Popular 1 Opinion Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics 2 Science Why It’s Hard to Keep the Pounds Off 3 Food How to Cut Up a Whole Chicken 4 U.S. Obama Delivers Howard’s Commencement 5 Opinion Manufacturing China’s Future 6 Movies This Week’s Movies | May 6, 2016 7 World The Killing of Farkhunda 8 Science Parrots: The Highlight Reel 9 World Between Borders: American Migrant Crisis 10 Health In Love and Loss © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Home   Art Checks in at a London Hotel. Advertisement Advertisement By STEVEN KURUTZFEB. 26, 2014 Guests who check into Room 134 at the Ace Hotel London Shoreditch will find one wall covered with a color photograph by Richard Evans of autumnal countryside. In Room 113, Jonathan Barnbrook has created a large-scale piece inspired by neoclassical Victorian typography, above, while the walls of Suites 533 and 534 are hung with Justine Ashbee’s woven textiles in simple geometric patterns. The three artists, and nearly 100 others, were commissioned by the hotel to create pieces for each of the guest rooms and the public spaces. The work ranges from typography and photography to painting and street art, and will no doubt further the reputation of Ace hotels as trendy hangouts for the MacBook-toting urban creative class. It may also bring some positive coverage for the East London outpost. Months after it opened last September, a founder of the boutique hotel chain, Alex Calderwood, was found dead in one of the rooms. Information: acehotel.com/london. A version of this article appears in print on February 27, 2014, on page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: Art Checks in at a London Hotel. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Movies   Anatomy of a Scene. Channels & Shows Home Search Culture Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Film directors walk viewers through one scene of their movies, showing the magic, motives and the mistakes from behind the camera. Recent Episodes in Anatomy of a Scene Anatomy of a Scene Culture 1:26 Anatomy of a Scene | ‘Miles Ahead’ Anatomy of a Scene Culture 2:13 Anatomy of a Scene | ‘Midnight Special’ Anatomy of a Scene Culture 3:51 Anatomy of a Scene | ‘Krisha’ Anatomy of a Scene Culture 3:54 Anatomy of a Scene | ‘Triple 9’ Anatomy of a Scene Culture 3:57 Anatomy of a Scene | ‘Race’ Anatomy of a Scene Culture 3:21 Anatomy of a Scene | ‘The Witch’ Anatomy of a Scene Culture 3:08 Anatomy of a Scene | ‘A War’ Anatomy of a Scene Culture 3:19 Anatomy of a Scene | ‘Rams’ Anatomy of a Scene Culture 3:35 Anatomy of a Scene | ‘Son of Saul’ Show more videos from Anatomy of a Scene Most Popular 1 Opinion Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics 2 Science Why It’s Hard to Keep the Pounds Off 3 Food How to Cut Up a Whole Chicken 4 U.S. Obama Delivers Howard’s Commencement 5 Opinion Manufacturing China’s Future 6 Movies This Week’s Movies | May 6, 2016 7 World The Killing of Farkhunda 8 Science Parrots: The Highlight Reel 9 World Between Borders: American Migrant Crisis 10 Health In Love and Loss © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Science   Ask Well: Medicines for Motion Sickness Sign Up for the Running Email. Advertisement A look at the drugs — some used by astronauts — that can relieve car, sea and space nausea. Reader Question • 608 votes It’s not a new medicine, but Dr. John P. Carey of Johns Hopkins University often recommends the scopolamine patch to his patients. The patch, sold under the brand name Transderm Scop, requires a prescription, and works by blocking brain signals that cause queasiness. The patch is placed behind the ear, where it slowly releases medication into the blood. This slow release helps minimize side effects, which can include drowsiness and dry mouth and other problems. NASA astronauts use the same medication, but because they need the drug to work at warp speed, they take it orally, as a pill. NASA is developing a nasal-spray version of the drug as well. Antihistamines can also be effective in curbing motion sickness. Common drugs in this class include dimenhydrinate (known as Dramamine) and meclizine (known as Bonine). Both are available over the counter. A prescription antihistamine favored by astronauts is promethazine (sold under such brands as Phenergan, Phenadoz and Promethegan), commonly given by injection for rapid relief of symptoms. In fact, it was an allergist who in 1947 discovered that Dramamine was effective against motion sickness. When he used the drug to treat a patient with hives, she was also cured of chronic motion sickness. The doctor then began a program called Operation Seasickness. He convinced the United States Army to test the effects of Dramamine on soldiers sailing to Germany aboard the transport ship General Ballou. Of the 389 soldiers who took the drug, 372 found their motion sickness disappear. But it’s important to keep in mind that Dramamine and Bonine are known to cause drowsiness, dry mouth and other side effects. Do you have a health question? Submit your question to Ask Well. Your health questions answered by Times journalists and experts. Your Questions | All » Get Well's Running email for practical tips, expert advice, exclusive content and a bit of motivation delivered to your inbox every week to help you on your running journey. Coming soon. How much do you know about the amazing things that go on in your gut? Take our quiz to find out about the creepy, crawly critters living in your home. What surface is the most friendly to the flu virus? Where’s the best place to stand when you’re talking to a sick person? How does sleep affect health, relationships and well-being? The “Reading the Mind in the Eyes Test” measures ability to understand others’ emotional states. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   Super Rugby Expands Into Argentina. Advertisement Advertisement By EMMA STONEYFEB. 26, 2014 WELLINGTON, New Zealand — Starting in 2016, Argentina will get what it wanted: its own Super Rugby franchise, and a tighter bond with the heavyweight rugby nations in the Southern Hemisphere. Sanzar, the organization that runs the Rugby Championship competition and Super Rugby, announced last Thursday that it would be expanding from 15 to 17 teams, adding its first in South America. South Africa has also been guaranteed a sixth team, likely to be the Southern Kings, who were involved in Super Rugby in 2013 but lost out to the Lions for inclusion this year. Currently there are five franchises each in South Africa, New Zealand and Australia, the countries that make up Sanzar. The expansion of Super Rugby into Argentina follows its admittance into the well-established Tri-Nations competition, which was relabeled the Rugby Championship when the Pumas joined the annual Sanzar tournament in 2012. The former Pumas halfback Agustin Pichot was the driving force behind getting Argentina into the Rugby Championship and has been in the forefront of negotiations for Super Rugby inclusion, also. Advertisement The Sanzar chief Greg Peters said it was the logical step to take. “It’s a natural extension from their involvement in the Rugby Championship,” he said. “It makes logical strategic sense to include them in both of the Sanzar competitions.” The exact format of the new competition has yet to be confirmed, although a “preferred model” has been submitted for approval to South Africa, New Zealand and Australia. The expansion has not been universally accepted, however. Some coaches and players, who already travel huge distances for games, are worried that adding Argentina to the mix will affect their workload and performance. But the expansion will certainly open up greater opportunities for Argentina’s players and raise the standard of rugby played in that country — and played by the Pumas. Argentina’s players now have to leave their home country to secure professional contracts. The majority play in France and Britain. Only a few have played Super Rugby. Two Pumas, Tomás Leonardi and Nicolás Vergallo, played for the Southern Kings last year, while in 2009 Juan Martín Hernández signed with the Sharks, another South African franchise, but a back injury kept him out of Super Rugby in 2010. This year, Pumas lock Manuel Carizza is playing for the Stormers in South Africa, while Matias Diaz is the first Argentinean to play in New Zealand after signing a deal with the Highlanders. “A professional franchise in Argentina would be a dream come true for many of us — mainly from the point of view of the success of the national team,” said Carizza, who has played 41 tests for Argentina and spent nine years in France at the Top 14 clubs Biarritz and Racing Metro before moving to South Africa. “Personally, I am very happy here and still want to establish myself in the Stormers team and Super Rugby. But, with the bigger picture in mind, a Super Rugby franchise back home would mean a lot for our rugby.” Advertisement Playing in Super Rugby would also mean there are no clashes between their club commitments and international rugby. Argentines who are selected for the Pumas in the Rugby Championship are unavailable for their clubs at the start of the Top 14, English Premiership or Pro 12 Celtic League season, and team owners are becoming increasingly unhappy about that. It is one of the reasons Carizza headed to South Africa. “Racing Metro didn’t want to keep me, due to my international commitments,” he said. “I went back home for the Rugby Championship with the intention of looking for a new contract after the tournament. The Stormers were the first Super Rugby franchise to look at me, and I didn’t have to think twice about signing with them.” Diaz is a young prop embarking on professional rugby for the first time. He turned down offers from clubs in Europe to make the move to the Highlanders after making his Pumas debut last year. “I’m happy with the decision I made to put my professional career first before the money, because I had other offers from clubs that offered me more money,” said the 21-year-old, who played for Teqüe, a club in Mendoza, Argentina. “But I’ve made the best decision because I’m improving a lot as a rugby player here. I believe Super Rugby is the best place to start my professional career. It’s the highest standard you can get in rugby.” Enticing players like Diaz and Carizza, along with those whose French contracts are expiring in 2015, to return to Argentina for Super Rugby will be crucial if the new team is to be competitive. But Peters does not expect to see the entire Pumas national team suiting up in the Argentine franchise’s Super Rugby jerseys. “I don’t think that’s either likely or realistic,” he said. “There will still be players who are playing in Europe who play for the Pumas. Carizza, though, believes many Argentines will be eager to play on home soil. “I think all of our players would love to play Super Rugby,” said the lock, who made his Super Rugby debut last weekend. “For the last 15 years, the top Pumas players have gone to France because it’s easier and there’s always been a history of our players playing professional rugby in Europe. Advertisement “Now with Argentina playing in the Rugby Championship, it would make it easier or more viable for our top players to also play Super Rugby and, at the same time, represent their national team.” Diaz, who also made his Super Rugby debut over the weekend, hopes that if he is successful at the Highlanders, his countrymen will be further encouraged to play Super Rugby. “I know people are watching me and what I’m doing,” said Diaz, who was inspired to play rugby when the Pumas finished third at the 2007 Rugby World Cup. “I’m pleased because I’m working really hard to be a good example for anyone who wants to follow my path. “I don’t feel pressure because I’m the first from Argentina to play in New Zealand. I put pressure on myself to give my best for my team. I realize that this is one opportunity in life and I need to do my best.” A version of this article appears in print on February 27, 2014, in The International New York Times. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Technology   Peering Into Tech’s Monuments of Innovation. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » The New York Times Peering Into Tech’s Monuments of Innovation Close this slideshow Slide Go to previous slide Go to next slide Facebook’s headquarters in Menlo Park, Calif., is a cluster of 11 buildings enclosing a Disney-like pedestrian square and a two-way promenade. Short meetings take place on foot. Read more CreditJim Wilson/The New York Times Supported by Loading... 1 of 12 Go to previous slide Go to next slide Share This Slide Show Restart Slide Show More Slide Shows The Next Tech Frontier The increasing appeal of India, now the world’s fastest growing major economy, was underscored in recent days. The Next Tech Frontier Barcelona’s Mobile World In Reno, Trading One-Armed Bandits for Data Centers Peering Into Tech’s Monuments of Innovation Creating Experiences to Sell Gadgets A Fast-Follower Now Wants to Be a Tech Trendsetter Tracking the World’s Biggest E-Commerce Event London’s Tech City Takes Root A Camera That Looks Like a Lens The New York Times
Travel   New Butler Services Buff Luxury Hotels. Advertisement In the race for an increasingly personalized luxury hotel experience, the butler may be the ultimate amenity. Since January, the new Langham, Chicago has employed a rotating staff of eight dedicated butlers for its three club floors. Carlos Carrera, the director of butler services for the hotel, said that the new generation of butlers specializes in services like unpacking and pressing and arranging daily details like dinner reservations and child care. At the Langham, the service costs an extra $75 per person daily for those on the club floors, where rooms are $470 to $1,500 per night. The hotel’s Infinity and Regent Suites, which go for $6,000 a night, include 24-hour butler service. At the St. Regis Hotels, the butler has morphed into a personal assistant. In a new initiative at the St. Regis Bal Harbour Resort in Florida, guests can request to have their closets stocked with clothing and accessories to try from Neiman Marcus. The butler then serves as a kind of personal shopper. “Our butlers today are more Pepper Potts in ‘Iron Man’ than Alfred Pennyworth in ‘Batman,’ ” said Anthony Ingham, the vice president of North American brand management for St. Regis Hotels and Resorts. About 40 percent of the butlers at St. Regis properties are women, he said. And, in a nod to a connected world, guests and butlers can communicate before, during and after a stay via eButler, the hotel’s dedicated online platform. Charles MacPherson, the owner of an eponymous academy for butlers and household managers and whose new book, “The Butler Speaks,” offers etiquette and entertaining tips, said he believes that even crusty Mr. Carson, the character on the series “Downton Abbey,” would approve of eButlers. “In person or electronically, the butler’s job is to personalize the guest experience and build a relationship of trust,” he said. A version of this article appears in print on 03/02/2014, on page TR3 of the NewYork edition with the headline: New Butler Services Buff Luxury Hotels. In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
U.S.   Discussions of Arizona Governor’s Veto. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Video Discussions of Arizona Governor’s Veto By Quynhanh Do | Feb. 27, 2014 | 1:08 Reaction to Gov. Jan Brewer’s veto of a bill that would have allowed refusal of service to gay men and lesbians. Related: article: Day After Governor’s Veto, Arizona Takes Up Abortion Clinics Show More PlaylistUp Next in Video Next → Op-Docs: Season 5 9:23 I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked   Video1:08 Hitting all the Right Notes Op-Docs: Season 5 13:33 Manufacturing China’s Future Op-Docs: Season 5 6:05 Fashion vs. Art   Video0:56 Excerpt: ‘The Father’   Video0:33 Excerpt: ‘Exit Strategy’ Op-Docs: Season 5 7:19 A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race   Video1:58 Excerpt: ‘Antlia Pneumatica’   News Clips: Europe1:20 Officials React to Panama Papers   News Clips: Europe3:47 Mossack Fonseca on Data Leak © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Business   High Tech. Advertisement By Ian Livengood & J.A.S.A. Crossword Class Mar 1, 2014 The New York Times Crossword is available through subscription only. SATURDAY’S PUZZLE— This Saturday puzzle was a collaborative effort constructed by Ian Livengood and the crossword class at the J.A.S.A. (or Jewish Association Serving the Aging). Down below, Ian talks a bit about what the class does and what their creative process is like. What makes this puzzle stand out are the many technology-themed clues and answers. It gets started with a clue reading “Samsung Galaxy Note rival,” referring to the IPAD AIR, which the tech-savvy can use to RETWEET stories about GOOGLE GLASS. I particularly enjoyed the clue for that last one, which plays off the multiple meanings of the word bridge. Other high-tech elements at play include a radar SENSOR, an ADWARE detector and a nod to the carrier T MOBILE. Even the Hubble telescope gets a shout-out. Alongside all these, we have an example of texting shorthand that, to the untrained eye, looks like imparsable jibberish: KTHXBYE for “curt chat closing” at 18 Across. Its unusual combination of letters makes it tricky to spot. The crossers helped me fill in some of the blanks, but I started to second-guess myself when faced with the alien-looking “K–X–YE.” It makes you realize that, out of context, these abbreviations look like another language. Which is not to say that this puzzle has anything against foreign languages. From BIENVENUE to ARTE to ACH (nicht verdammt!), this puzzle is anything but monolingual. Even some of the English clues have a distinctly a worldly feel: Turkish LIRA, PAD THAI, double-decker buses, Italian PERONI, you name it. Now let’s hear from Ian: How does the J.A.S.A. crossword class work? Well, I suggested a few seed entries for the themeless puzzle — GOOGLE GLASS and IPAD AIR — and designed a conservative 72-word grid around ’em. The class then collaborated on the fill and clues. With the exception of ATAVIST (which isn’t even that bad), all the 7+ letter entries are either good to great, I think. A lot of our clues made the cut, too. I bet this puzzle plays easy if you know your tech products and almost certainly got slotted for a Saturday based on K THX BYE. Enjoy! For today’s clip, here’s Los Lobos’ rendition of the Mexican folk song, LA BAMBA:  What did you think? Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. David Kahn puts us through the wringer.Read more… Emily Cox and Henry Rathvon offer us a challenging cryptic crossword puzzle.Read more… A place for solvers to discuss and ask questions about the “A Little Variety” suite of puzzles.Read more… Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Food   Melissa Clark. Channels & Shows Home Search Food Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos The author and cook Melissa Clark takes you into her kitchen to show you how easy it can be to make exquisite and delicious meals. Recent Episodes in Melissa Clark Melissa Clark Food 2:58 Chocolate Babka Melissa Clark Food 2:38 Baked Fish and Chips Melissa Clark Food 3:03 Chocolate Pavlova with Chocolate Mousse Melissa Clark Food 2:17 Alfajores Melissa Clark Food 1:42 Golden Leek and Potato Soup Melissa Clark Food 2:28 Chocolate Peppermint Bars Melissa Clark Food 1:60 Cheesy Pasta Bake Melissa Clark Food 3:03 Japanese Chicken and Root Vegetable Stew Melissa Clark Food 2:38 Turkish Burned Milk Pudding Show more videos from Melissa Clark Most Popular 1 Opinion Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics 2 Science Why It’s Hard to Keep the Pounds Off 3 Food How to Cut Up a Whole Chicken 4 U.S. Obama Delivers Howard’s Commencement 5 Opinion Manufacturing China’s Future 6 Movies This Week’s Movies | May 6, 2016 7 World The Killing of Farkhunda 8 Science Parrots: The Highlight Reel 9 World Between Borders: American Migrant Crisis 10 Health In Love and Loss © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Foreign   Image of the Day: February 28. Advertisement   India’s national elections began April 7 and will continue on nine separate dates until May 12, with results expected to be announced on May 16. The vote is the world’s largest, with 814 million eligible voters set to choose 543 members of the lower house of Parliament. The other two seats will be appointed by the president. This election is widely considered to be India’s most consequential since 1977. India Ink will be moving to the World page of The New York Times. Read more… A memorial ceremony at the Imphal War Cemetery in Manipur to honor the soldiers who died during World War II.Read more… The newly elected prime minister reaches out to the public in a blog post about his first 30 days in office.Read more… Newborns whose mothers are unable to breastfeed are given stored breast milk to protect them from potentially life-threatening infection.Read more… In the final stage of a long decline, Hindustan Motors announced in May that it would suspend production of the Ambassador, a car that was once synonymous with style and status.Read more… This report on India from the journalists of The New York Times and a pool of talented writers in India and beyond provides unbiased, authoritative reporting on the country and its place in the world. India Ink also strives to be a virtual meeting point for discussion of this complex, fast-changing democracy – its politics, economy, culture and everyday life. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Health   The Weekly Health Quiz. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content The New York Times Health|The Weekly Health Quiz Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go http://nyti.ms/1cqyNuf Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Health The Weekly Health Quiz In the news: male breast cancer, hepatitis C and antifreeze. Test your knowledge of this week’s health news. FEB. 27, 2014 Toby Bilanow/The New York Times Related Multimedia The Weekly Health Quiz FEB. 20, 2014 Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Movies   Think Back. Channels & Shows Home Search Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos From politics, international affairs, sports and even the Oscars, Sam Tanenhaus adds historical perspective to contemporary events with incisive commentary and archival images. Recent Episodes in Think Back Think Back 3:03 Think Back: Olympics Meet Politics Think Back 3:01 Think Back: The State of the Response Think Back 2:46 Think Back: The Military Budget Think Back 2:05 Think Back: Let's Make a Deal Think Back 1:48 Think Back: America's Immigration Debate Think Back 2:31 Think Back: The Republican Insurgency Think Back 2:13 Think Back: America and Isolationism Think Back 2:19 Think Back: Limits of Presidential Power Most Popular 1 Opinion Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics 2 Science Why It’s Hard to Keep the Pounds Off 3 Food How to Cut Up a Whole Chicken 4 U.S. Obama Delivers Howard’s Commencement 5 Opinion Manufacturing China’s Future 6 Movies This Week’s Movies | May 6, 2016 7 World The Killing of Farkhunda 8 Science Parrots: The Highlight Reel 9 World Between Borders: American Migrant Crisis 10 Health In Love and Loss © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Science   The Pasta Is Gluten-Free Sign Up for the Running Email. Advertisement   Every so often I like to do a small roundup of gluten-free pasta products, to see if there is anything new and noteworthy on the market. This week was a good time to do it, as I’m in New York staying with my sister Melodie, who is gluten-intolerant. Melodie used to eat a lot of rice pasta until she became concerned with reports about arsenic in rice. It is cold in New York and we are mourning the death of our 95-year-old mother, and this calls for comfort food. So I went shopping for gluten-free pasta that was not made primarily with rice flour, and put my purchases to good use. Those purchases, by the way, were not cheap. The best price I could get (at Whole Foods) for one of the brands I liked the most, Andean Dream Quinoa Spaghetti (when you look closely at the ingredients you’ll see that it is made from a mix of quinoa and brown rice) was $3.50 for an 8-ounce package. Another brand I liked, truRoots Ancient Grain Spaghetti, made from quinoa, amaranth and brown rice, was $4.79 for an 8-ounce package. (I saw the same products at other shops for as much as $5.) I can get regular spaghetti for $1 to $1.69 a pound. So if you are on a budget, the gluten-free pastas I worked with this week will be splurges. I also tried cornmeal fettucine made by Le Veneziane ($3.99 for 8.8 ounces) and thought it was quite good. Brown-rice penne rigate by Delallo was also good, but I found the texture more brittle and stodgy than the other varieties. I think the shape is an important element here. Spaghetti had the best al dente texture of all the shapes, followed by fettucine. Gluten-Free Fettucine With Brussels Sprouts, Lemon and Ricotta: Creamy ricotta and Brussels sprouts add color and texture to this dish. Quinoa Spaghetti With Cauliflower, Almonds, Tomatoes and Chickpeas: Cauliflower is often matched with pasta in Italy; this version is all about texture. Gluten-Free Spaghetti With Baby Broccoli, Mushrooms and Walnuts: The walnuts add texture and flavor to this pasta dish. Gluten-Free Penne With Peas, Ricotta and Tarragon: A simple dish that is sweet with tarragon and a breeze to make. Gluten-Free Spaghetti With Shrimp, Kale and Tomatoes: A robust winter pasta with a spicy kick. Your health questions answered by Times journalists and experts. Your Questions | All » Get Well's Running email for practical tips, expert advice, exclusive content and a bit of motivation delivered to your inbox every week to help you on your running journey. Coming soon. How much do you know about the amazing things that go on in your gut? Take our quiz to find out about the creepy, crawly critters living in your home. What surface is the most friendly to the flu virus? Where’s the best place to stand when you’re talking to a sick person? How does sleep affect health, relationships and well-being? The “Reading the Mind in the Eyes Test” measures ability to understand others’ emotional states. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   Not Just One, but 3 Weapons for Real Madrid. Advertisement Advertisement By ROB HUGHESFEB. 27, 2014 LONDON — How the wheel turns in the Champions League. Real Madrid wore golden orange and struck six goals against Schalke in Germany. Cristiano Ronaldo looked imperious and scored twice. Karim Benzema looked predatory and scored twice. Gareth Bale looked no longer the new boy — and scored twice. And Ronaldo, particularly, might have had more. Madrid might have scored 10. And it is that number — la décima, as it is known — that has obsessed the club ever since May 2002, when Real won its ninth, and last, final in the tournament. Eleven coaching changes and a turnover of more than a billion dollars’ worth of playing talent has ensued since then. Always the quest has been la décima. Always the president of Real Madrid, Florentino Pérez, has justified the spending and the impatience for this title. Based on this year’s form, Bayern Munich would be the one power capable of standing in Real’s way. But in destroying Schalke on Wednesday night, Madrid exorcised some of its demons about playing on German soil. “I’m satisfied,” Carlo Ancelotti, the Italian coach of Real Madrid, said at the postgame news conference, once the 6-1 victory in Gelsenkirchen ended. “That was the perfect game. My players played with togetherness, and they played well. We weren’t thinking of our bad run in Germany, we were thinking about giving absolutely everything to win and resolve this tie as soon as possible.” Advertisement And Ancelotti arched an eyebrow. That is as animated as he gets, this man who has won the Champions League twice as a player and twice as a manager with A.C. Milan. Down the corridor in Gelsenkirchen, where Real had laid bare its record of winning only once in 25 previous Champions League matches in Germany, Bale, the new recruit to this strike force, was asked by reporters how it felt to be in this lineup. He said his earliest memory of the Champions League was watching Zinédine Zidane score against Bayer Leverkusen in the 2002 final. That goal must have impressed countless boys just about to enter their teens, as Bale was at that time. It was a volley struck with startling power and sweetness — a volley with the ball at hip height when the ball approached him across his body from the left. Down in Wales, where Bale was growing up, the sight of that goal was an inspiration and an invitation to work harder than ever on his own skills. To one day join Real Madrid and to be coached by Zidane — who is now Ancelotti’s assistant — rounds out the dream. To then form the attack with Ronaldo and Benzema is beyond his boyhood imagination. “Our attacking trio,” said the master of understatement, Ancelotti, “are very dangerous.” Dangerous? They are devastating. Schalke is a decent side, fourth in the Bundesliga, which we were told last year was the new force that would dominate Europe for years to come. But Schalke is a young side, a vulnerable one and now a chastened one. Advertisement “Cristiano Ronaldo was everywhere,” said Benedikt Höwedes, the Schalke captain at the postgame briefing. “We saw exactly why he’s the world player of the year.” Indeed, Ronaldo was unplayable at times. The four (or was it five?) step-overs he made with bewildering speed and control during the run for his first goal were eclipsed by the gliding, graceful movement of his second. He also struck a post and missed twice. Yet it was the combinations from Ronaldo, Benzema and Bale that blitzed Schalke throughout this match. Reports say that Klaas-Jan Huntelaar’s goal right at the end for Schalke was more than a match for any of the Real strikes. And it was. Huntelaar beat Iker Casillas with a volley in added time that was as perfect in many ways as the Zidane goal of 2002. It was uninhibited and excellent, but a consolation against a majestic opponent that by then was thinking of its next game, Sunday’s Madrid derby against Atlético in the Vicente Calderón Stadium. In the other match, the first leg of Galatasaray versus Chelsea was played to a 1-1 tie in Istanbul on Wednesday. It was a contest built around the intrigue of Gala’s center forward, Didier Drogba, competing against many of the Chelsea teammates with whom he shared the 2012 Champions League title. Drogba is still good and still athletic for a man in his mid-thirties. He has the guile and the know-how but is playing on experience rather than the power that he could once summon. Take sentiment out of it, and what was clear is that the Ivory Coast player is on his last lap. By the time he left the field, to an ovation from the Chelsea bench with 10 minutes left, the game was tied, 1-1. It finished that way, and so now everyone is talking up the return of Drogba to Stamford Bridge, where this contest must be settled. The odds favor the London side. They did what they had to in Turkey, aided and abetted by a gamble by Galatasaray Coach Roberto Mancini. Advertisement Seeking to surprise Chelsea, he fielded two Champions League rookies in Izet Hajrovic, a 22-year-old Bosnian, and Alex Telles, a 21-year-old Brazilian. By the time Hajrovic was taken out half way through the first half, Gala was a goal down. Emmanuel Eboué lost the ball to César Azpilicueta, who combined with Andre Schürrle down the left wing before cutting the ball back into the six-yard box for a comfortable side-footed goal by Fernando Torres. So open was Gala’s defense that Chelsea could have scored more. But once Mancini changed tactics, the balance swung in the other direction, and Galatasaray’s big Cameroon defender, Aurélien Chedjou, equalized following a corner kick. Where was Chelsea’s defense? John Terry and goalkeeper Petr Cech were possibly looking for a threat that wasn’t there — for Drogba — while Chedjou was left unmarked. A version of this article appears in print on February 28, 2014, in The International New York Times. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Travel   Wine on Wheels. Advertisement How often have cyclists wished for a bike basket that could securely hold a bottle of wine and two wineglasses for the duration of their ride? Probably not that often, though with the current proliferation of bike tours taking visitors closer to both nature and alcohol, they may soon be in high demand. It’s with that in mind that Clos du Bois, the winemaker, has partnered with C. Wonder, the bike maker, to create the Clos Cruiser, a basic C. Wonder City Bike model, outfitted with a limited-edition wicker basket with fau -leather loops perfectly sized to steady a bottle of wine and corkscrew, and two fabric pockets made to hold two stemless, shatter-proof, even recyclable Govino wine glasses. To assist the Sonoma County winery with promoting these limited-edition cruisers, the h2hotel, an eco-friendly establishment in nearby Healdsburg, Calif., is offering a special two-night stay package from March 1 through May 31. It includes the use of both the hotel and winery’s Clos Cruisers, a complimentary tasting and picnic at the winery, dinner at the hotel, custom bike maps and a monogrammed wine stopper. (Rates start at $680 for midweek dates, $880 for weekends.) Lucky, perhaps, that the winery is less than five miles from the hotel and the basket holds just one bottle. A version of this article appears in print on 03/09/2014, on page TR3 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Sonoma: Bicycle Built for 2 (Wineglasses). In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
U.S.   Heavy Rains Pound Southern California. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Video Heavy Rains Pound Southern California Feb. 28, 2014 | 1:12 A second winter storm this week swept into California, bringing more rain than this drought-hit state has had in months. Related: article: Rain in California Brings Relief, and New Problems Show More PlaylistUp Next in Video Next → Op-Docs: Season 5 9:23 I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked   Video1:08 Hitting all the Right Notes Op-Docs: Season 5 13:33 Manufacturing China’s Future Op-Docs: Season 5 6:05 Fashion vs. Art   Video0:56 Excerpt: ‘The Father’   Video0:33 Excerpt: ‘Exit Strategy’ Op-Docs: Season 5 7:19 A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race   Video1:58 Excerpt: ‘Antlia Pneumatica’   News Clips: Europe1:20 Officials React to Panama Papers   News Clips: Europe3:47 Mossack Fonseca on Data Leak © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Business   Oscar Double Features. Advertisement Administrivial Alert! There’s still time to register for the American Crossword Puzzle Tournament, which will be held March 7 through March 9 at the Brooklyn Bridge Marriott. Not only that, but spaces are still available for the annual Cru dinner. Click on the links for more details. By Alan Arbesfeld Mar 2, 2014 The New York Times Crossword is available through subscription only. SUNDAY’S PUZZLE — Break out the popcorn and settle into your seats, film buffs, because you’re in for a double feature. Today’s crossword has an Oscar them, just in time for the Academy Awards ceremony. The theme answers concocted by Alan Arbesfeld combine the titles of two films, each of which was nominated for Best Picture in the past. The clues tell you the year in which the films were nominated, but it is up to you to figure out the rest. Take 68 Across as an example: “Part of a line at O’Hare? [2002, 1976]” is a hint for CHICAGO TAXI DRIVER. Get the drift? Even some of the nontheme answers bask in the glow of the silver screen. At 8 Down, PST (for Pacific Standard Time) could have been described in any number of ways, but Alan decided to give it some razzle-dazzle with the clue “the Oscars are awarded on it.” Among the other Hollywood-centric answers we have DISNEY and the director Brian DEPALMA. But film isn’t the only art form covered, as we have a few nods to serious art and literature. For instance, there’s Caravaggio’s “The Sacrifice of ISAAC” and a line from Shakespeare’s Richard III: “A HORSE! My kingdom for a horse!” This was a really fun solve because of its playful theme and its array of really fresh words. To highlight a few, I would mention PINPRICKS, SEAWAYS and MAN ALIVE. I also liked the inclusion of TRADE WAR, though that one took me a while to figure out because I made a mess of the northeast corner. (I had erroneously guessed that “bread holder?” at 40 Across was “basket,” and it fit with all my crossers — at first. WALLET fit the bill much better.) Today’s video clip was inspired by a film that made up one-half of a double-feature theme answer, “Rocky.” What did you think? Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. David Kahn puts us through the wringer.Read more… Emily Cox and Henry Rathvon offer us a challenging cryptic crossword puzzle.Read more… A place for solvers to discuss and ask questions about the “A Little Variety” suite of puzzles.Read more… Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   From 1939, Somerset Maugham’s List of Must-Reads. Advertisement Seventy-five years ago, the Paris edition published a list of books recommended by W. Somerset Maugham, the British novelist, to “help you live more fully.” Here is the top 10:  Poetry in three anthologies: ‘‘The Golden Treasury,” “The Oxford Book of English Verse” and Gerald Bullett’s “The English Galaxy of Shorter Poems.” If you don’t like them, Mr. Maugham said, don’t read them. “Every man is his own best critic. Whatever the learned say about a book, however unanimous they are in their praise of it, unless it interests you it is no business of yours,” he wrote. “That is counsel which I wish the high-school teachers of English in the United States would ponder. I doubt if anything is more responsible for the tons of trash read in America than the common school program of forcing good books upon boys and girls when they don’t want it. They acquire a permanent distaste for good literature. “Who is going to acquire the habit of reading for reading’s sake,” Mr. Maugham wrote, “if he is bidden to read books that bore him?” Mr. Maugham’s list is limited to English books. He said that he would not presume to recommend American books to American readers, though he could hardly believe that any American at all inclined to literature could have missed “Huckleberry Finn” or “Moby Dick,” Walt Whitman’s “Leaves of Grass” or the stories of Edgar Allan Poe.  This blog will share highlights and curiosities from The International Herald Tribune's storied reportage. While we will share coverage of historic events — the world wars, the women's suffrage movement, the great expeditions — we will also republish glimpses of less earth-shaking moments and the ephemera of daily life. The same stories that caught the eyes of our generations of editors now offer us insight into the lives and interests of generations of Trib readers. Read more » From the International Herald Tribune archives: The Vichy government limits menus in 1941.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: A Nigerian officer at war sends a dispatch in 1916. Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: Germany establishes a naval repair shop 500 miles from South America in 1941.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: Prince Victor Napoleon gives a treatise on French politics in 1891.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: British troops attack Irak forces in 1941.Read more… Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   Warriors Soar, Knicks Lag, and Boos Rain Down. Advertisement Advertisement By ZACH SCHONBRUNFEB. 28, 2014 With 8 minutes 26 seconds remaining in the first quarter of Friday’s game against the Golden State Warriors, Knicks Coach Mike Woodson called his first timeout. The Knicks already trailed, 13-6, but it was still early, and there was still a game plan. The tone — for either team — could still be determined. In time, though, the Warriors’ lead swelled to 12 points, then 21, then 27, rising like a departing jet without a moment of turbulence. The Knicks’ body language seemed to worsen with each Golden State 3-pointer (and there were 14 of them). The Knicks snarled when Tyson Chandler was ejected in the fourth quarter. They sulked when time wound down in another runaway defeat. The story of the 126-103 loss was not unlike that of the blowout they suffered a night earlier, against the Miami Heat, except that this was a home game, in front of an increasingly restless and uneasy crowd that showered the Knicks with boos at halftime and after the game. “Fire Woodson” chants circulated. The frustration — from the fans, the players, the coaches, everybody — all but dripped from the bridges traversing the top of the arena. “It’s not a mental thing,” said J. R. Smith, who finished with 17 points. “It’s a heart thing.” Carmelo Anthony, who scored 23 points, had a hard time disagreeing. “When we lose games, it’s embarrassing, like tonight,” Anthony said. “These games are embarrassing. I’m not going against what J. R. said, in terms of the heart, but in my opinion we’re just not very consistent.” Advertisement It did not help matters that the Knicks arrived jet-lagged after the late-night loss in Miami on Thursday to meet the young, fresh-legged Warriors, who are coached by the former Knicks guard Mark Jackson and are one of the N.B.A.’s best offensive teams. The Warriors poured in 38 points in the first quarter, shooting 56 percent, and they were just warming up. Their 126 points were 3 shy of the most the Knicks have allowed all season. The Knicks could have anticipated this, knowing how the Warriors’ All-Star leader, Stephen Curry, revels in performing on the type of stage that a Friday night game at Madison Square Garden offers. In Curry’s last game at the Garden, a year ago, he scored 54 points, with 11 3-pointers, one short of the N.B.A. record. Curry did not light up the Garden as he did that night last February, but he did finish with his fourth career triple-double: 27 points, 11 rebounds and 11 assists in 30 minutes. “It’s one of those arenas with history, and you look forward to playing here,” Curry said. “To play well and impact the game the way I wanted to definitely felt great.” The Knicks struggled for continuity on defense, often looking slow, overmatched or confused — or all of the above — while trying to keep up with Golden State’s prolific shooters. The Warriors scored 15 points in transition, and Woodson deemed the Knicks’ defensive effort in that area to be among the worst of the season. “We just didn’t get back and get matched,” Woodson said. When Golden State finished the first half on a 13-4 run, pushing its lead to 73-52, the crowd at the Garden sent the Knicks into the locker room with a shower of boos. The second half was not much better. If there was ever a lull in Golden State’s offensive attack, it was momentary. In the fourth quarter, Tyson Chandler flashed his frustration by shoving Golden State forward Marreese Speights as the two jogged up the court. The two players needed to be separated and were served with matching technical fouls. A few minutes later, Chandler, jawing at Speights again, earned his second technical and an automatic ejection. (He finished with 6 points and 12 rebounds). Advertisement Chandler said his frustration led to the ejection. “I figured we would be a little flat considering the travel schedule,” he said, “but I thought we would be able to do some things to slow them down.” With Chandler gone, Anthony quietly exited, too, calling it a night with four and a half minutes remaining and the Knicks trailing by 19. For a second night in a row, he watched the waning moments of a runaway loss from the bench. With each successive defeat, the Knicks’ chances for a playoff berth sink further, and thoughts inevitably turn to the future — namely what it might have in store for Anthony, who can opt out of his contract and become a free agent this summer. The Knicks’ on-court futility, coupled with their continued drama off the court, would seem to make the team less and less desirable to a player of Anthony’s caliber. Anthony, who played 37 minutes Friday, said he might get his right hand examined after receiving several slaps during the course of the game. He shrugged off his apparent fatigue from logging hefty minutes, night after night, as a bright spot for a dimming franchise. But even Anthony might begin to wonder what it is all for. “I keep saying we’ve got to figure it out, figure it out, figure it out,” Anthony said. “It’s time now where we should have it.” REBOUNDS Amar’e Stoudemire was given the night off after playing Thursday night in Miami. Last week, Stoudemire complained of soreness in his left knee, and Mike Woodson held him out of last Wednesday’s game against the New Orleans Pelicans. A version of this article appears in print on March 1, 2014, on page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: Warriors Soar, Knicks Lag, and Boos Rain Down. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
U.S.   The New Face of Mormons on a Mission. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Video The New Face of Mormons on a Mission By Chang W. Lee and Channon Hodge | Mar. 1, 2014 | 0:20 Ashley Farr spends one of her first few days in Daejeon, South Korea, singing hymns in Korean and meeting fellow missionaries, more and more of whom are women. Show More PlaylistUp Next in Video Next → Op-Docs: Season 5 9:23 I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked   Video1:08 Hitting all the Right Notes Op-Docs: Season 5 13:33 Manufacturing China’s Future Op-Docs: Season 5 6:05 Fashion vs. Art   Video0:56 Excerpt: ‘The Father’   Video0:33 Excerpt: ‘Exit Strategy’ Op-Docs: Season 5 7:19 A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race   Video1:58 Excerpt: ‘Antlia Pneumatica’   News Clips: Europe1:20 Officials React to Panama Papers   News Clips: Europe3:47 Mossack Fonseca on Data Leak © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Arts   The Race for the Documentary Oscar. Channels & Shows Home Search Culture Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Culture The Race for the Documentary Oscar By Eric Feldman and Roopa Vasudevan | Mar. 3, 2014 | 2:54 This year’s race for the documentary Oscar boils down to a divide between the serious-minded insider favorites like “The Act of Killing” and lighter films with popular appeal. Show More PlaylistUp Next in Culture Next → This Week’s Movies Culture3:28 This Week’s Movies | May 6, 2016   U.S.0:22 Obama, Dancing With the Star (Wars)   Opinion6:58 Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics   Fashion1:13 Red Carpet Arrivals at the Met Ball   Culture3:07 Tony Nominations Are Announced This Week’s Movies Culture3:28 This Week’s Movies | April 29, 2016 Anatomy of a Scene Culture2:41 Anatomy | ‘The Man Who Knew Infinity’   Europe0:29 Big Ben to Be Silenced   Food1:12 Tomatillo Pineapple Salsa | Taste Makers   Taste Makers6:01 Nigerian Food, Crash-and-Burn Style | Taste Makers © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Business   Echo, Echo. Advertisement By Andrea Carla Michaels and Michael Blake Mar 3, 2014 The New York Times Crossword is available through subscription only. MONDAY’S PUZZLE — Happy Monday, everyone. Who’s ready to get this week started? Today’s puzzle, constructed by Andrea Carla Michaels and Michael Blake, features a slew of theme answers in which two similar-sounding words are placed one after the other, creating new phrases with often strange meanings. The words aren’t exact echoes per se, because the second word is one letter shorter than the first. (This means that once you figure out the first half of a theme entry you can confidently fill in the rest of the letters.) I was a big fan of 62 Across, in which the response to “memorize lines for a Shakespearean king?” was LEARN LEAR. Funny enough, I noticed that one of the non-theme answers had a similar thing going on. New Jersey Governor Chris CHRISTIE has repeated syllables in his name, but not quite in the “LEARN LEAR” format. It’s a Monday, so the puzzle is pretty straightforward in terms of solving. Still, a few clues required a few moments to stop and think, like REPO Man, EUGENE and ERSE. My favorite clue had to be “set of keys?” for PIANO, although honorable mention goes to LIRA, the former “capital” of Italy. For today’s video, here’s a clip of “IF WE Never Meet Again” by Elvis. What did you think? Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. David Kahn puts us through the wringer.Read more… Emily Cox and Henry Rathvon offer us a challenging cryptic crossword puzzle.Read more… A place for solvers to discuss and ask questions about the “A Little Variety” suite of puzzles.Read more… Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Fashion   Divorce: Share Your Experience. Advertisement Advertisement FEB. 28, 2014 Unhitched, a column appearing in the Vows pages of The New York Times, tells the story of a relationship, from romance to marriage to divorce to life afterward. We are interested in couples of all ages and backgrounds, including those divorced more than once. The column allows both of the former spouses to discuss how their lives have changed and what they have learned. Did the divorce represent a failure or a healthy restart? Was it bitter or amicable? Are there things that could have been done to save the marriage or make divorcing easier? If you are divorced and you and your ex are willing to be interviewed, please fill out the form below. (Asterisks mark required fields.) Your contact information will not be published. A reporter or editor may follow up with you.     Advertisement  Thank you for your submission.   By submitting to us, you are promising that the content is original, doesn’t plagiarize from anyone or infringe a copyright or trademark, doesn’t violate anybody’s rights and isn’t libelous or otherwise unlawful or misleading. And you agree to the rules of our Member Agreement, found online at our website.      &amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;lt;a href="http://nytimes.wufoo.com/forms/z7x0w7/"&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;gt;Fill out the form here.&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;lt;/a&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;gt; See More » Go to Home Page »
Foreign   In Our Pages: March 3. Advertisement   ROME — Eugenio Cardinal Pacelli was elected Pope this evening [March 2] on his sixty-third birthday. He took the name Pius XII. His election came at the end of the first day’s balloting, which is almost unprecedented in modern times and indicates that an overwhelming sentiment in his favor must have manifested itself from the opening of the Conclave. The new Pope is the first ever to have visited America. He spent several weeks on vacation in the United States in 1936. His knowledge of and sympathy with America is expected to lead to a strengthening of American representation in the College of Cardinals. In Vatican circles the greatest satisfaction is expressed at the choice and the new Pope is seen as eminently qualified by his experience, wide travel, and diplomatic training, to guide the Church safely through troubled times ahead. News of the election was broadcast throughout the world. The first news, ‘‘Holy Church has a new Pope,’’ flashed over the radio at 5:28 o’clock this afternoon, brought scores of thousands by car and on foot to Saint Peter’s Square to hear the official announcement and receive the new Pope’s blessing from the balcony of Saint Peter’s Basilica. 1964: New Drive Against Religion Launched by Kremlin MOSCOW — A major new antireligious campaign aimed at everyone from preschool toddlers to pensioners was made public today [March 2] by the Soviet Communist party. In a sweeping decree affecting journalists and other key groups, the party’s Central Committee ordered intensive nationwide efforts to overcome the ‘‘remnants of religion.’’ Published in detail in the Communist party newspaper ‘‘Pravda,’’ the decree called for stepped-up efforts to reach believers in their homes and places of work and to prevent dissemination of religious information among children of preschool age — ‘‘in every settlement and collective.’’ ‘‘Pravda’’ also took to task the party organizations that ‘‘live in peace’’ with party members who observe religious rites. ‘‘Pravda’’ told its readers it was necessary to eliminate ‘‘private-property instincts, nationalistic, religious and other prejudices’’ and it added: ‘‘Any religion or belief in the supernatural, in good and evil, in an almighty creator, is a distorted, antiscientific outlook on nature and science, is a negation of science and a substitution of scientific knowledge by fantastic myths and legends.’’ It said: “Any religion turns a man into a slave of the gods he invented.’’  This blog will share highlights and curiosities from The International Herald Tribune's storied reportage. While we will share coverage of historic events — the world wars, the women's suffrage movement, the great expeditions — we will also republish glimpses of less earth-shaking moments and the ephemera of daily life. The same stories that caught the eyes of our generations of editors now offer us insight into the lives and interests of generations of Trib readers. Read more » From the International Herald Tribune archives: The Vichy government limits menus in 1941.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: A Nigerian officer at war sends a dispatch in 1916. Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: Germany establishes a naval repair shop 500 miles from South America in 1941.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: Prince Victor Napoleon gives a treatise on French politics in 1891.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: British troops attack Irak forces in 1941.Read more… Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Movies   Who Will Win Best Picture?. Channels & Shows Home Search Culture Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Culture Who Will Win Best Picture? By Eric Feldman | Mar. 3, 2014 | 2:42 “Gravity” has won many of the technical awards this evening, but will that translate to a win for best picture? Show More PlaylistUp Next in Culture Next → This Week’s Movies Culture3:28 This Week’s Movies | May 6, 2016   U.S.0:22 Obama, Dancing With the Star (Wars)   Opinion6:58 Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics   Fashion1:13 Red Carpet Arrivals at the Met Ball   Culture3:07 Tony Nominations Are Announced This Week’s Movies Culture3:28 This Week’s Movies | April 29, 2016 Anatomy of a Scene Culture2:41 Anatomy | ‘The Man Who Knew Infinity’   Europe0:29 Big Ben to Be Silenced   Food1:12 Tomatillo Pineapple Salsa | Taste Makers   Taste Makers6:01 Nigerian Food, Crash-and-Burn Style | Taste Makers © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Society   Danielle Miller and Robert Garcia. Advertisement Advertisement MARCH 2, 2014 Danielle Beth Miller, a daughter of Robin Schweibel Miller and Alan J. Miller of Tenafly, N.J., was married Saturday evening to Robert Michael Garcia, the son of Maralyn A. Garcia and Ernesto Garcia, also of Tenafly. Rabbi Laurie Phillips officiated at the Liberty Warehouse, an event space in Brooklyn. Mrs. Garcia, 29, works in New York for Google, where she presents advertising and marketing data to advertising clients. She graduated from Cornell. Her father is an owner of MM&R, a women’s clothing manufacturer in New York. Her mother works as a personal financial assistant to private clients in New York. She is a trustee and former president of the Kaplen JCC on the Palisades, a Jewish community center in Tenafly. Mr. Garcia, 28, is the senior associate for business development at Gotham Asset Management in New York. He graduated cum laude from Tulane, from which he also received a master’s degree in finance. His parents own Empire State Mortgage in Weehawken, N.J. A version of this article appears in print on March 2, 2014, on page ST16 of the New York edition with the headline: Danielle Miller, Robert Garcia. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Sports   Bolstered by Their Depth, Nets Head Home on the Rise. Advertisement Advertisement By ROB REISCHELMARCH 2, 2014 MILWAUKEE — Jason Collins is finally heading to his new home. He will be bringing along an ascending team that continues to play rock-solid basketball. Collins and the Nets downed the host Milwaukee Bucks, 107-98, on Saturday night to cap a 6-game, 11-day trip. The Nets displayed depth, getting 54 points from their reserves — more than half their total. “I can’t wait to go home,” said forward Andray Blatche, who had a huge night off the bench with 19 points and 13 rebounds. “It’s been a long trip.” It was also a successful one for the Nets (28-29), who went 4-2 on their trip and pulled within three and a half games of Toronto, which leads the Eastern Conference’s Atlantic Division. The Nets also improved to 18-8 since Jan. 1, their best record to start a calendar year since 2002, when their current head coach, Jason Kidd, led the team to the N.B.A. finals. Marcus Thornton, acquired from Sacramento in a trade on Feb. 20, led the way with 25 points, going 4 of 7 from 3-point range. He was one of five players with more than 10 points for the Nets, who held off a gutsy effort from a Milwaukee team that has the N.B.A.’s worst record (11-47). Advertisement “I think this is a very positive road trip,” Kidd said, “starting in Utah, but understanding that the last game is always the hardest because you’re thinking about getting home. And I thought the guys came out from the start and put ourselves in position to win the game.” Collins, the N.B.A.’s first openly gay active player, had a productive eight-minute stint in which he did the little things that have made him a favorite of Kidd’s, setting solid screens and playing strong defense while adding a veteran presence. On Monday, the Nets will host Chicago, giving Collins a chance to make his first appearance at Barclays Center since he signed a 10-day contract Feb. 23. “Yeah, looking forward to it,” Collins said. “I’ve obviously played in the arena before. It would be nice obviously to play in front of the home crowd.” Just 48 hours before the Nets’ latest win, Collins presented an autographed No. 98 jersey to the family of Matthew Shepard in Denver. Collins wears the number in honor of Shepard, a gay college student who was murdered in Wyoming in 1998. “It was special,” Collins said of his meeting with Shepard’s family. “It was a great meeting, and they’re a wonderful family, and I’m very fortunate to have that with them. I’ll say it was a great experience — again, very fortunate, very glad that they drove down from Wyoming and glad to have met with them.” The Nets, who were once 3-9 and later 5-13, are now making a push to host a first-round playoff series. They played without Kevin Garnett, who sat out with back spasms. “I don’t think it’s long term,” Kidd said. “This is his rest day, so we’ll get him some proper rest and see how he feels tomorrow.” Advertisement Without Garnett, the Nets’ bench stepped up in a big way. “That’s what we do,” Blatche said. “We just came out and did what we do.” Neither side played much defense in the first half, and the Nets carried a 55-53 lead into halftime. They shot 48.8 percent from the floor, and Milwaukee connected on 46.3 percent of its attempts. Nets guard Deron Williams went 3 for 5 from 3-point range and scored 13 of his 15 points in the first half. Thornton made all four of his field-goal attempts and had 13 points in nine minutes. The Nets stretched their lead to 77-72 through three quarters, with Shaun Livingston and Paul Pierce each scoring 6 points in the third. The Nets opened the fourth quarter on an 8-2 blitz to grab an 85-74 lead. Thornton and Blatche began the burst with baskets, and Mirza Teletovic drained a 3-pointer to force a Milwaukee timeout. The Bucks closed the gap to 4 points with five minutes remaining. But Thornton drained a pair of 3-pointers to stymie any hopes of a Bucks comeback. “We’re bringing the pieces together right now and trying to form some continuity going into the stretch run,” said Livingston, who had 14 points on 7-of-11 shooting. “For us to be as good as we want to be, we need to have all five guys playing as a unit,” he added. Now, after nearly two weeks on the road, the Nets are going home. And after sitting out most of the season and hoping for a chance to extend his career, Collins cannot wait. “To put into words right now, nah,” Collins said when asked what the last week had meant to him. “You know, obviously, things happen very quickly. The events over the past week have been very special.” A version of this article appears in print on March 2, 2014, on page SP1 of the New York edition with the headline: Bolstered by Their Depth, Nets Head Home on the Rise. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Travel   ‘A Trip to Mammoth Cave, Ky.’. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content The New York Times Travel|‘A Trip to Mammoth Cave, Ky.’ Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go http://nyti.ms/MzuzJT Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Travel ‘A Trip to Mammoth Cave, Ky.’ In 1864, James Fowler Rusling, a Union soldier and abolitionist, published a pamphlet recounting his experiences in the cave as well as an interview he conducted with Materson Bransford, the slave who served as his guide. FEB. 28, 2014 A Trip to the Mammoth Cave, Ky. by J.F. Rusling (PDF) A Trip to the Mammoth Cave, Ky. by J.F. Rusling (Text) More on NYTimes.com Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
U.S.   A Dilemma for Doctors. Channels & Shows Home Search U.S. & Politics Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos U.S. & Politics A Dilemma for Doctors By Emma Cott and Abby Goodnough | Mar. 3, 2014 | 4:21 Complying with the mandates of the Affordable Care Act is a daunting task for many private practice physicians, and it is pushing some to go work for hospital systems. Related: article: New Law’s Demands on Doctors Have Many Seeking a Network Show More PlaylistUp Next in U.S. & Politics Next →   U.S. & Politics2:22 Obama Delivers Howard’s Commencement   U.S. & Politics1:27 Obama Introduces New Tax Rules   U.S. & Politics0:28 Suspect Arrested in Maryland Shootings   U.S. & Politics1:01 Shooting at Maryland Mall   U.S. & Politics1:39 Obama on Trump’s Campaign   U.S. & Politics0:50 Trump on the Economy in Coal Country   U.S. & Politics1:08 Clinton Issues a Warning on Trump   U.S. & Politics0:33 Lawmaker's Removal Adds to Brazil's Turmoil   U.S. & Politics1:06 Ban on Selling E-Cigarettes to Minors   Europe0:47 Cameron Maintains View on Trump’s Policy © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Books   The Read Around: Roddy Doyle. Channels & Shows Home Search Culture Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Culture The Read Around: Roddy Doyle By Chris Cascarano | Mar. 3, 2014 | 2:24 Roddy Doyle discusses how the “daily humiliations of getting older” inform the characters in his new book, “The Guts.” Show More PlaylistUp Next in Culture Next → This Week’s Movies Culture3:28 This Week’s Movies | May 6, 2016   U.S.0:22 Obama, Dancing With the Star (Wars)   Opinion6:58 Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics   Fashion1:13 Red Carpet Arrivals at the Met Ball   Culture3:07 Tony Nominations Are Announced This Week’s Movies Culture3:28 This Week’s Movies | April 29, 2016 Anatomy of a Scene Culture2:41 Anatomy | ‘The Man Who Knew Infinity’   Europe0:29 Big Ben to Be Silenced   Food1:12 Tomatillo Pineapple Salsa | Taste Makers   Taste Makers6:01 Nigerian Food, Crash-and-Burn Style | Taste Makers © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Business   null
Business   Oscar Double Features. Advertisement Administrivial Alert! There’s still time to register for the American Crossword Puzzle Tournament, which will be held March 7 through March 9 at the Brooklyn Bridge Marriott. Not only that, but spaces are still available for the annual Cru dinner. Click on the links for more details. By Alan Arbesfeld Mar 2, 2014 The New York Times Crossword is available through subscription only. SUNDAY’S PUZZLE — Break out the popcorn and settle into your seats, film buffs, because you’re in for a double feature. Today’s crossword has an Oscar them, just in time for the Academy Awards ceremony. The theme answers concocted by Alan Arbesfeld combine the titles of two films, each of which was nominated for Best Picture in the past. The clues tell you the year in which the films were nominated, but it is up to you to figure out the rest. Take 68 Across as an example: “Part of a line at O’Hare? [2002, 1976]” is a hint for CHICAGO TAXI DRIVER. Get the drift? Even some of the nontheme answers bask in the glow of the silver screen. At 8 Down, PST (for Pacific Standard Time) could have been described in any number of ways, but Alan decided to give it some razzle-dazzle with the clue “the Oscars are awarded on it.” Among the other Hollywood-centric answers we have DISNEY and the director Brian DEPALMA. But film isn’t the only art form covered, as we have a few nods to serious art and literature. For instance, there’s Caravaggio’s “The Sacrifice of ISAAC” and a line from Shakespeare’s Richard III: “A HORSE! My kingdom for a horse!” This was a really fun solve because of its playful theme and its array of really fresh words. To highlight a few, I would mention PINPRICKS, SEAWAYS and MAN ALIVE. I also liked the inclusion of TRADE WAR, though that one took me a while to figure out because I made a mess of the northeast corner. (I had erroneously guessed that “bread holder?” at 40 Across was “basket,” and it fit with all my crossers — at first. WALLET fit the bill much better.) Today’s video clip was inspired by a film that made up one-half of a double-feature theme answer, “Rocky.” What did you think? Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. David Kahn puts us through the wringer.Read more… Emily Cox and Henry Rathvon offer us a challenging cryptic crossword puzzle.Read more… A place for solvers to discuss and ask questions about the “A Little Variety” suite of puzzles.Read more… Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   From 1939, Somerset Maugham’s List of Must-Reads. Advertisement Seventy-five years ago, the Paris edition published a list of books recommended by W. Somerset Maugham, the British novelist, to “help you live more fully.” Here is the top 10:  Poetry in three anthologies: ‘‘The Golden Treasury,” “The Oxford Book of English Verse” and Gerald Bullett’s “The English Galaxy of Shorter Poems.” If you don’t like them, Mr. Maugham said, don’t read them. “Every man is his own best critic. Whatever the learned say about a book, however unanimous they are in their praise of it, unless it interests you it is no business of yours,” he wrote. “That is counsel which I wish the high-school teachers of English in the United States would ponder. I doubt if anything is more responsible for the tons of trash read in America than the common school program of forcing good books upon boys and girls when they don’t want it. They acquire a permanent distaste for good literature. “Who is going to acquire the habit of reading for reading’s sake,” Mr. Maugham wrote, “if he is bidden to read books that bore him?” Mr. Maugham’s list is limited to English books. He said that he would not presume to recommend American books to American readers, though he could hardly believe that any American at all inclined to literature could have missed “Huckleberry Finn” or “Moby Dick,” Walt Whitman’s “Leaves of Grass” or the stories of Edgar Allan Poe.  This blog will share highlights and curiosities from The International Herald Tribune's storied reportage. While we will share coverage of historic events — the world wars, the women's suffrage movement, the great expeditions — we will also republish glimpses of less earth-shaking moments and the ephemera of daily life. The same stories that caught the eyes of our generations of editors now offer us insight into the lives and interests of generations of Trib readers. Read more » From the International Herald Tribune archives: The Vichy government limits menus in 1941.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: A Nigerian officer at war sends a dispatch in 1916. Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: Germany establishes a naval repair shop 500 miles from South America in 1941.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: Prince Victor Napoleon gives a treatise on French politics in 1891.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: British troops attack Irak forces in 1941.Read more… Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   Warriors Soar, Knicks Lag, and Boos Rain Down. Advertisement Advertisement By ZACH SCHONBRUNFEB. 28, 2014 With 8 minutes 26 seconds remaining in the first quarter of Friday’s game against the Golden State Warriors, Knicks Coach Mike Woodson called his first timeout. The Knicks already trailed, 13-6, but it was still early, and there was still a game plan. The tone — for either team — could still be determined. In time, though, the Warriors’ lead swelled to 12 points, then 21, then 27, rising like a departing jet without a moment of turbulence. The Knicks’ body language seemed to worsen with each Golden State 3-pointer (and there were 14 of them). The Knicks snarled when Tyson Chandler was ejected in the fourth quarter. They sulked when time wound down in another runaway defeat. The story of the 126-103 loss was not unlike that of the blowout they suffered a night earlier, against the Miami Heat, except that this was a home game, in front of an increasingly restless and uneasy crowd that showered the Knicks with boos at halftime and after the game. “Fire Woodson” chants circulated. The frustration — from the fans, the players, the coaches, everybody — all but dripped from the bridges traversing the top of the arena. “It’s not a mental thing,” said J. R. Smith, who finished with 17 points. “It’s a heart thing.” Carmelo Anthony, who scored 23 points, had a hard time disagreeing. “When we lose games, it’s embarrassing, like tonight,” Anthony said. “These games are embarrassing. I’m not going against what J. R. said, in terms of the heart, but in my opinion we’re just not very consistent.” Advertisement It did not help matters that the Knicks arrived jet-lagged after the late-night loss in Miami on Thursday to meet the young, fresh-legged Warriors, who are coached by the former Knicks guard Mark Jackson and are one of the N.B.A.’s best offensive teams. The Warriors poured in 38 points in the first quarter, shooting 56 percent, and they were just warming up. Their 126 points were 3 shy of the most the Knicks have allowed all season. The Knicks could have anticipated this, knowing how the Warriors’ All-Star leader, Stephen Curry, revels in performing on the type of stage that a Friday night game at Madison Square Garden offers. In Curry’s last game at the Garden, a year ago, he scored 54 points, with 11 3-pointers, one short of the N.B.A. record. Curry did not light up the Garden as he did that night last February, but he did finish with his fourth career triple-double: 27 points, 11 rebounds and 11 assists in 30 minutes. “It’s one of those arenas with history, and you look forward to playing here,” Curry said. “To play well and impact the game the way I wanted to definitely felt great.” The Knicks struggled for continuity on defense, often looking slow, overmatched or confused — or all of the above — while trying to keep up with Golden State’s prolific shooters. The Warriors scored 15 points in transition, and Woodson deemed the Knicks’ defensive effort in that area to be among the worst of the season. “We just didn’t get back and get matched,” Woodson said. When Golden State finished the first half on a 13-4 run, pushing its lead to 73-52, the crowd at the Garden sent the Knicks into the locker room with a shower of boos. The second half was not much better. If there was ever a lull in Golden State’s offensive attack, it was momentary. In the fourth quarter, Tyson Chandler flashed his frustration by shoving Golden State forward Marreese Speights as the two jogged up the court. The two players needed to be separated and were served with matching technical fouls. A few minutes later, Chandler, jawing at Speights again, earned his second technical and an automatic ejection. (He finished with 6 points and 12 rebounds). Advertisement Chandler said his frustration led to the ejection. “I figured we would be a little flat considering the travel schedule,” he said, “but I thought we would be able to do some things to slow them down.” With Chandler gone, Anthony quietly exited, too, calling it a night with four and a half minutes remaining and the Knicks trailing by 19. For a second night in a row, he watched the waning moments of a runaway loss from the bench. With each successive defeat, the Knicks’ chances for a playoff berth sink further, and thoughts inevitably turn to the future — namely what it might have in store for Anthony, who can opt out of his contract and become a free agent this summer. The Knicks’ on-court futility, coupled with their continued drama off the court, would seem to make the team less and less desirable to a player of Anthony’s caliber. Anthony, who played 37 minutes Friday, said he might get his right hand examined after receiving several slaps during the course of the game. He shrugged off his apparent fatigue from logging hefty minutes, night after night, as a bright spot for a dimming franchise. But even Anthony might begin to wonder what it is all for. “I keep saying we’ve got to figure it out, figure it out, figure it out,” Anthony said. “It’s time now where we should have it.” REBOUNDS Amar’e Stoudemire was given the night off after playing Thursday night in Miami. Last week, Stoudemire complained of soreness in his left knee, and Mike Woodson held him out of last Wednesday’s game against the New Orleans Pelicans. A version of this article appears in print on March 1, 2014, on page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: Warriors Soar, Knicks Lag, and Boos Rain Down. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
U.S.   The New Face of Mormons on a Mission. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Video The New Face of Mormons on a Mission By Chang W. Lee and Channon Hodge | Mar. 1, 2014 | 0:20 Ashley Farr spends one of her first few days in Daejeon, South Korea, singing hymns in Korean and meeting fellow missionaries, more and more of whom are women. Show More PlaylistUp Next in Video Next → Op-Docs: Season 5 9:23 I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked   Video1:08 Hitting all the Right Notes Op-Docs: Season 5 13:33 Manufacturing China’s Future Op-Docs: Season 5 6:05 Fashion vs. Art   Video0:56 Excerpt: ‘The Father’   Video0:33 Excerpt: ‘Exit Strategy’ Op-Docs: Season 5 7:19 A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race   Video1:58 Excerpt: ‘Antlia Pneumatica’   News Clips: Europe1:20 Officials React to Panama Papers   News Clips: Europe3:47 Mossack Fonseca on Data Leak © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Arts   The Race for the Documentary Oscar. Channels & Shows Home Search Culture Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Culture The Race for the Documentary Oscar By Eric Feldman and Roopa Vasudevan | Mar. 3, 2014 | 2:54 This year’s race for the documentary Oscar boils down to a divide between the serious-minded insider favorites like “The Act of Killing” and lighter films with popular appeal. Show More PlaylistUp Next in Culture Next → This Week’s Movies Culture3:28 This Week’s Movies | May 6, 2016   U.S.0:22 Obama, Dancing With the Star (Wars)   Opinion6:58 Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics   Fashion1:13 Red Carpet Arrivals at the Met Ball   Culture3:07 Tony Nominations Are Announced This Week’s Movies Culture3:28 This Week’s Movies | April 29, 2016 Anatomy of a Scene Culture2:41 Anatomy | ‘The Man Who Knew Infinity’   Europe0:29 Big Ben to Be Silenced   Food1:12 Tomatillo Pineapple Salsa | Taste Makers   Taste Makers6:01 Nigerian Food, Crash-and-Burn Style | Taste Makers © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Business   Echo, Echo. Advertisement By Andrea Carla Michaels and Michael Blake Mar 3, 2014 The New York Times Crossword is available through subscription only. MONDAY’S PUZZLE — Happy Monday, everyone. Who’s ready to get this week started? Today’s puzzle, constructed by Andrea Carla Michaels and Michael Blake, features a slew of theme answers in which two similar-sounding words are placed one after the other, creating new phrases with often strange meanings. The words aren’t exact echoes per se, because the second word is one letter shorter than the first. (This means that once you figure out the first half of a theme entry you can confidently fill in the rest of the letters.) I was a big fan of 62 Across, in which the response to “memorize lines for a Shakespearean king?” was LEARN LEAR. Funny enough, I noticed that one of the non-theme answers had a similar thing going on. New Jersey Governor Chris CHRISTIE has repeated syllables in his name, but not quite in the “LEARN LEAR” format. It’s a Monday, so the puzzle is pretty straightforward in terms of solving. Still, a few clues required a few moments to stop and think, like REPO Man, EUGENE and ERSE. My favorite clue had to be “set of keys?” for PIANO, although honorable mention goes to LIRA, the former “capital” of Italy. For today’s video, here’s a clip of “IF WE Never Meet Again” by Elvis. What did you think? Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. David Kahn puts us through the wringer.Read more… Emily Cox and Henry Rathvon offer us a challenging cryptic crossword puzzle.Read more… A place for solvers to discuss and ask questions about the “A Little Variety” suite of puzzles.Read more… Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Fashion   Divorce: Share Your Experience. Advertisement Advertisement FEB. 28, 2014 Unhitched, a column appearing in the Vows pages of The New York Times, tells the story of a relationship, from romance to marriage to divorce to life afterward. We are interested in couples of all ages and backgrounds, including those divorced more than once. The column allows both of the former spouses to discuss how their lives have changed and what they have learned. Did the divorce represent a failure or a healthy restart? Was it bitter or amicable? Are there things that could have been done to save the marriage or make divorcing easier? If you are divorced and you and your ex are willing to be interviewed, please fill out the form below. (Asterisks mark required fields.) Your contact information will not be published. A reporter or editor may follow up with you.     Advertisement  Thank you for your submission.   By submitting to us, you are promising that the content is original, doesn’t plagiarize from anyone or infringe a copyright or trademark, doesn’t violate anybody’s rights and isn’t libelous or otherwise unlawful or misleading. And you agree to the rules of our Member Agreement, found online at our website.      &amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;lt;a href="http://nytimes.wufoo.com/forms/z7x0w7/"&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;gt;Fill out the form here.&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;lt;/a&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;gt; See More » Go to Home Page »
Foreign   In Our Pages: March 3. Advertisement   ROME — Eugenio Cardinal Pacelli was elected Pope this evening [March 2] on his sixty-third birthday. He took the name Pius XII. His election came at the end of the first day’s balloting, which is almost unprecedented in modern times and indicates that an overwhelming sentiment in his favor must have manifested itself from the opening of the Conclave. The new Pope is the first ever to have visited America. He spent several weeks on vacation in the United States in 1936. His knowledge of and sympathy with America is expected to lead to a strengthening of American representation in the College of Cardinals. In Vatican circles the greatest satisfaction is expressed at the choice and the new Pope is seen as eminently qualified by his experience, wide travel, and diplomatic training, to guide the Church safely through troubled times ahead. News of the election was broadcast throughout the world. The first news, ‘‘Holy Church has a new Pope,’’ flashed over the radio at 5:28 o’clock this afternoon, brought scores of thousands by car and on foot to Saint Peter’s Square to hear the official announcement and receive the new Pope’s blessing from the balcony of Saint Peter’s Basilica. 1964: New Drive Against Religion Launched by Kremlin MOSCOW — A major new antireligious campaign aimed at everyone from preschool toddlers to pensioners was made public today [March 2] by the Soviet Communist party. In a sweeping decree affecting journalists and other key groups, the party’s Central Committee ordered intensive nationwide efforts to overcome the ‘‘remnants of religion.’’ Published in detail in the Communist party newspaper ‘‘Pravda,’’ the decree called for stepped-up efforts to reach believers in their homes and places of work and to prevent dissemination of religious information among children of preschool age — ‘‘in every settlement and collective.’’ ‘‘Pravda’’ also took to task the party organizations that ‘‘live in peace’’ with party members who observe religious rites. ‘‘Pravda’’ told its readers it was necessary to eliminate ‘‘private-property instincts, nationalistic, religious and other prejudices’’ and it added: ‘‘Any religion or belief in the supernatural, in good and evil, in an almighty creator, is a distorted, antiscientific outlook on nature and science, is a negation of science and a substitution of scientific knowledge by fantastic myths and legends.’’ It said: “Any religion turns a man into a slave of the gods he invented.’’  This blog will share highlights and curiosities from The International Herald Tribune's storied reportage. While we will share coverage of historic events — the world wars, the women's suffrage movement, the great expeditions — we will also republish glimpses of less earth-shaking moments and the ephemera of daily life. The same stories that caught the eyes of our generations of editors now offer us insight into the lives and interests of generations of Trib readers. Read more » From the International Herald Tribune archives: The Vichy government limits menus in 1941.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: A Nigerian officer at war sends a dispatch in 1916. Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: Germany establishes a naval repair shop 500 miles from South America in 1941.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: Prince Victor Napoleon gives a treatise on French politics in 1891.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: British troops attack Irak forces in 1941.Read more… Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Movies   Who Will Win Best Picture?. Channels & Shows Home Search Culture Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Culture Who Will Win Best Picture? By Eric Feldman | Mar. 3, 2014 | 2:42 “Gravity” has won many of the technical awards this evening, but will that translate to a win for best picture? Show More PlaylistUp Next in Culture Next → This Week’s Movies Culture3:28 This Week’s Movies | May 6, 2016   U.S.0:22 Obama, Dancing With the Star (Wars)   Opinion6:58 Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics   Fashion1:13 Red Carpet Arrivals at the Met Ball   Culture3:07 Tony Nominations Are Announced This Week’s Movies Culture3:28 This Week’s Movies | April 29, 2016 Anatomy of a Scene Culture2:41 Anatomy | ‘The Man Who Knew Infinity’   Europe0:29 Big Ben to Be Silenced   Food1:12 Tomatillo Pineapple Salsa | Taste Makers   Taste Makers6:01 Nigerian Food, Crash-and-Burn Style | Taste Makers © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Society   Danielle Miller and Robert Garcia. Advertisement Advertisement MARCH 2, 2014 Danielle Beth Miller, a daughter of Robin Schweibel Miller and Alan J. Miller of Tenafly, N.J., was married Saturday evening to Robert Michael Garcia, the son of Maralyn A. Garcia and Ernesto Garcia, also of Tenafly. Rabbi Laurie Phillips officiated at the Liberty Warehouse, an event space in Brooklyn. Mrs. Garcia, 29, works in New York for Google, where she presents advertising and marketing data to advertising clients. She graduated from Cornell. Her father is an owner of MM&R, a women’s clothing manufacturer in New York. Her mother works as a personal financial assistant to private clients in New York. She is a trustee and former president of the Kaplen JCC on the Palisades, a Jewish community center in Tenafly. Mr. Garcia, 28, is the senior associate for business development at Gotham Asset Management in New York. He graduated cum laude from Tulane, from which he also received a master’s degree in finance. His parents own Empire State Mortgage in Weehawken, N.J. A version of this article appears in print on March 2, 2014, on page ST16 of the New York edition with the headline: Danielle Miller, Robert Garcia. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Sports   Bolstered by Their Depth, Nets Head Home on the Rise. Advertisement Advertisement By ROB REISCHELMARCH 2, 2014 MILWAUKEE — Jason Collins is finally heading to his new home. He will be bringing along an ascending team that continues to play rock-solid basketball. Collins and the Nets downed the host Milwaukee Bucks, 107-98, on Saturday night to cap a 6-game, 11-day trip. The Nets displayed depth, getting 54 points from their reserves — more than half their total. “I can’t wait to go home,” said forward Andray Blatche, who had a huge night off the bench with 19 points and 13 rebounds. “It’s been a long trip.” It was also a successful one for the Nets (28-29), who went 4-2 on their trip and pulled within three and a half games of Toronto, which leads the Eastern Conference’s Atlantic Division. The Nets also improved to 18-8 since Jan. 1, their best record to start a calendar year since 2002, when their current head coach, Jason Kidd, led the team to the N.B.A. finals. Marcus Thornton, acquired from Sacramento in a trade on Feb. 20, led the way with 25 points, going 4 of 7 from 3-point range. He was one of five players with more than 10 points for the Nets, who held off a gutsy effort from a Milwaukee team that has the N.B.A.’s worst record (11-47). Advertisement “I think this is a very positive road trip,” Kidd said, “starting in Utah, but understanding that the last game is always the hardest because you’re thinking about getting home. And I thought the guys came out from the start and put ourselves in position to win the game.” Collins, the N.B.A.’s first openly gay active player, had a productive eight-minute stint in which he did the little things that have made him a favorite of Kidd’s, setting solid screens and playing strong defense while adding a veteran presence. On Monday, the Nets will host Chicago, giving Collins a chance to make his first appearance at Barclays Center since he signed a 10-day contract Feb. 23. “Yeah, looking forward to it,” Collins said. “I’ve obviously played in the arena before. It would be nice obviously to play in front of the home crowd.” Just 48 hours before the Nets’ latest win, Collins presented an autographed No. 98 jersey to the family of Matthew Shepard in Denver. Collins wears the number in honor of Shepard, a gay college student who was murdered in Wyoming in 1998. “It was special,” Collins said of his meeting with Shepard’s family. “It was a great meeting, and they’re a wonderful family, and I’m very fortunate to have that with them. I’ll say it was a great experience — again, very fortunate, very glad that they drove down from Wyoming and glad to have met with them.” The Nets, who were once 3-9 and later 5-13, are now making a push to host a first-round playoff series. They played without Kevin Garnett, who sat out with back spasms. “I don’t think it’s long term,” Kidd said. “This is his rest day, so we’ll get him some proper rest and see how he feels tomorrow.” Advertisement Without Garnett, the Nets’ bench stepped up in a big way. “That’s what we do,” Blatche said. “We just came out and did what we do.” Neither side played much defense in the first half, and the Nets carried a 55-53 lead into halftime. They shot 48.8 percent from the floor, and Milwaukee connected on 46.3 percent of its attempts. Nets guard Deron Williams went 3 for 5 from 3-point range and scored 13 of his 15 points in the first half. Thornton made all four of his field-goal attempts and had 13 points in nine minutes. The Nets stretched their lead to 77-72 through three quarters, with Shaun Livingston and Paul Pierce each scoring 6 points in the third. The Nets opened the fourth quarter on an 8-2 blitz to grab an 85-74 lead. Thornton and Blatche began the burst with baskets, and Mirza Teletovic drained a 3-pointer to force a Milwaukee timeout. The Bucks closed the gap to 4 points with five minutes remaining. But Thornton drained a pair of 3-pointers to stymie any hopes of a Bucks comeback. “We’re bringing the pieces together right now and trying to form some continuity going into the stretch run,” said Livingston, who had 14 points on 7-of-11 shooting. “For us to be as good as we want to be, we need to have all five guys playing as a unit,” he added. Now, after nearly two weeks on the road, the Nets are going home. And after sitting out most of the season and hoping for a chance to extend his career, Collins cannot wait. “To put into words right now, nah,” Collins said when asked what the last week had meant to him. “You know, obviously, things happen very quickly. The events over the past week have been very special.” A version of this article appears in print on March 2, 2014, on page SP1 of the New York edition with the headline: Bolstered by Their Depth, Nets Head Home on the Rise. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Travel   ‘A Trip to Mammoth Cave, Ky.’. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content The New York Times Travel|‘A Trip to Mammoth Cave, Ky.’ Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go http://nyti.ms/MzuzJT Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Travel ‘A Trip to Mammoth Cave, Ky.’ In 1864, James Fowler Rusling, a Union soldier and abolitionist, published a pamphlet recounting his experiences in the cave as well as an interview he conducted with Materson Bransford, the slave who served as his guide. FEB. 28, 2014 A Trip to the Mammoth Cave, Ky. by J.F. Rusling (PDF) A Trip to the Mammoth Cave, Ky. by J.F. Rusling (Text) More on NYTimes.com Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
U.S.   A Dilemma for Doctors. Channels & Shows Home Search U.S. & Politics Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos U.S. & Politics A Dilemma for Doctors By Emma Cott and Abby Goodnough | Mar. 3, 2014 | 4:21 Complying with the mandates of the Affordable Care Act is a daunting task for many private practice physicians, and it is pushing some to go work for hospital systems. Related: article: New Law’s Demands on Doctors Have Many Seeking a Network Show More PlaylistUp Next in U.S. & Politics Next →   U.S. & Politics2:22 Obama Delivers Howard’s Commencement   U.S. & Politics1:27 Obama Introduces New Tax Rules   U.S. & Politics0:28 Suspect Arrested in Maryland Shootings   U.S. & Politics1:01 Shooting at Maryland Mall   U.S. & Politics1:39 Obama on Trump’s Campaign   U.S. & Politics0:50 Trump on the Economy in Coal Country   U.S. & Politics1:08 Clinton Issues a Warning on Trump   U.S. & Politics0:33 Lawmaker's Removal Adds to Brazil's Turmoil   U.S. & Politics1:06 Ban on Selling E-Cigarettes to Minors   Europe0:47 Cameron Maintains View on Trump’s Policy © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Books   The Read Around: Roddy Doyle. Channels & Shows Home Search Culture Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Culture The Read Around: Roddy Doyle By Chris Cascarano | Mar. 3, 2014 | 2:24 Roddy Doyle discusses how the “daily humiliations of getting older” inform the characters in his new book, “The Guts.” Show More PlaylistUp Next in Culture Next → This Week’s Movies Culture3:28 This Week’s Movies | May 6, 2016   U.S.0:22 Obama, Dancing With the Star (Wars)   Opinion6:58 Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics   Fashion1:13 Red Carpet Arrivals at the Met Ball   Culture3:07 Tony Nominations Are Announced This Week’s Movies Culture3:28 This Week’s Movies | April 29, 2016 Anatomy of a Scene Culture2:41 Anatomy | ‘The Man Who Knew Infinity’   Europe0:29 Big Ben to Be Silenced   Food1:12 Tomatillo Pineapple Salsa | Taste Makers   Taste Makers6:01 Nigerian Food, Crash-and-Burn Style | Taste Makers © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Business   Spirit of Experiment. Advertisement By Bruce Haight and Peter A. Collins Mar 4, 2014 The New York Times Crossword is available through subscription only. TUESDAY’S PUZZLE — Bifocals, the lightning rod and the odometer. These are just a few of the everyday objects that BENJAMIN FRANKLIN invented when he wasn’t busy with his other hobbies. Like publishing Poor Richard’s Almanac. Or developing the postal service. Or, oh yeah, fostering American independence. Reading his full roster of accomplishments will make you feel like a dolt. Then again, you may come away inspired by that spirit of innovation, as today’s constructors evidently were. Indeed, Bruce Haight and Peter A. Collins have come up with a highly original form of presentation for today’s puzzle. At first glance you’ll notice that it’s an asymmetrical grid, which is uncommon enough, but look a little bit closer and you’ll see that the black squares are arranged to depict an image that relates to today’s theme. That image is of A KITE, related to that BRAINY fellow’s famous ELECTRICITY experiment during a lightning storm in 1752. I’ll pass it over to Bruce and Pete to tell you how this idea came about. Bruce writes: “Pete Collins and I have been friends since childhood, when our families used to vacation together on a small lake in Wisconsin. He agreed to mentor me in 2012 when I got interested in constructing crosswords. I got this electricity puzzle idea when I was “block-doodling” one day on the computer and noticed I could make a pretty realistic looking kite. My wife Liz suggested I tie in Ben Franklin so I worked some lightning bolts into the grid. The first version had BEN and KEY attached to the bottom of the kite string, but that did not fly. I loved the grid art though, so I shipped the puzzle to Pete to see if he could get this project off the ground — I’ll let him finish the story. Thanks for everything, Pete!” Pete adds: “Bruce and I share an interest in ‘grid art.’ I think this grid is particularly nice, with the kite and lightning bolts. But make no mistake — this one is Bruce’s baby (I’m just the godfather). We went back and forth several times, with the kite being oriented various ways, before we settled on this arrangement. In addition to the grid art, I really like the highly unusual diagonal symmetry — and the three pairs of themed answers. And our reward for getting this puzzle published? We get three Benjamins!” Putting aside the theme for a moment, this puzzle also boats a high number of fresh answers, among them DR DOOM, FUR COAT, PHENOMS and OLD TIMER, which made for a fun solve. For today’s clip, here’s a video of the armonica, the musical instrument invented by Franklin.  What did you think? Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. David Kahn puts us through the wringer.Read more… Emily Cox and Henry Rathvon offer us a challenging cryptic crossword puzzle.Read more… A place for solvers to discuss and ask questions about the “A Little Variety” suite of puzzles.Read more… Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   Image of the Day: March 3. Advertisement   India’s national elections began April 7 and will continue on nine separate dates until May 12, with results expected to be announced on May 16. The vote is the world’s largest, with 814 million eligible voters set to choose 543 members of the lower house of Parliament. The other two seats will be appointed by the president. This election is widely considered to be India’s most consequential since 1977. India Ink will be moving to the World page of The New York Times. Read more… A memorial ceremony at the Imphal War Cemetery in Manipur to honor the soldiers who died during World War II.Read more… The newly elected prime minister reaches out to the public in a blog post about his first 30 days in office.Read more… Newborns whose mothers are unable to breastfeed are given stored breast milk to protect them from potentially life-threatening infection.Read more… In the final stage of a long decline, Hindustan Motors announced in May that it would suspend production of the Ambassador, a car that was once synonymous with style and status.Read more… This report on India from the journalists of The New York Times and a pool of talented writers in India and beyond provides unbiased, authoritative reporting on the country and its place in the world. India Ink also strives to be a virtual meeting point for discussion of this complex, fast-changing democracy – its politics, economy, culture and everyday life. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Movies   No Great Surprises for Oscar Night. Channels & Shows Home Search Culture Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Culture No Great Surprises for Oscar Night By Eric Feldman | Mar. 3, 2014 | 6:10 There were no big Oscar surprises, but this year’s Academy Awards show featured an engaging host and a best picture winner that even a critic can love. Show More PlaylistUp Next in Culture Next → This Week’s Movies Culture3:28 This Week’s Movies | May 6, 2016   U.S.0:22 Obama, Dancing With the Star (Wars)   Opinion6:58 Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics   Fashion1:13 Red Carpet Arrivals at the Met Ball   Culture3:07 Tony Nominations Are Announced This Week’s Movies Culture3:28 This Week’s Movies | April 29, 2016 Anatomy of a Scene Culture2:41 Anatomy | ‘The Man Who Knew Infinity’   Europe0:29 Big Ben to Be Silenced   Food1:12 Tomatillo Pineapple Salsa | Taste Makers   Taste Makers6:01 Nigerian Food, Crash-and-Burn Style | Taste Makers © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Science   ScienceTake. Channels & Shows Home Search Science Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos See how monkeys teach manners, elephants show empathy and ants imitate water in ScienceTake, combining cutting-edge research from the world of science with stunning footage of the natural world in action. Recent Episodes in ScienceTake ScienceTake Science 1:38 ScienceTake | Itching to Be Popular ScienceTake Science 1:24 Of Spider Bondage, and Cannibalism ScienceTake Science 1:26 ScienceTake | Surfing Beetles ScienceTake Science 1:25 ScienceTake | Teaching Crows ScienceTake Science 1:36 ScienceTake | Flight of the Sea Snail ScienceTake Science 1:19 ScienceTake | How the Stick Walks ScienceTake Science 1:25 ScienceTake | Building a Rescue Roach ScienceTake Science 1:12 ScienceTake | Plants Can Count? ScienceTake Science 1:30 ScienceTake | Carnivore’s Puzzle Box Show more videos from ScienceTake Most Popular 1 Opinion Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics 2 U.S. Obama Delivers Howard’s Commencement 3 Fashion & Style Bill Cunningham | Garden Party 4 Science Why It’s Hard to Keep the Pounds Off 5 U.S. How Will Obama Spend His Retirement? 6 World The Killing of Farkhunda 7 Science Parrots: The Highlight Reel 8 Opinion A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race 9 Health In Love and Loss 10 Food How to Cut Up a Whole Chicken © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Sports   Photo Replay: Feb. 24-March 2. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » The New York Times Photo Replay: Feb. 24-March 2 Close this slideshow Slide Go to previous slide Go to next slide Elian Herrera, left, and Scooter Gennett of the Milwaukee Brewers picked up baseballs during spring training in Phoenix on Monday. Read more CreditMatt York/Associated Press Supported by Loading... 1 of 14 Go to previous slide Go to next slide Share This Slide Show Restart Slide Show More Slide Shows Floating Ideas for America’s Cup This weekend’s America’s Cup World Series race in the Hudson River is preparing Oracle Team U.S.A. for the 2017 America’s Cup in Bermuda. Floating Ideas for America’s Cup Racing Around (and Around and Around) a Track Saying Good-Bye to the Minors A Move Toward the Mainstream Cramped Quarters Burst at the Seams With an N.B.A. Epic Upsets From Coast to Coast And They’re Off Beware the Upsets of March Seton Hall’s Big-Time Player The New York Times
Travel   In Rhode Island, a Celebration of Portugal. Advertisement While bacalao may not be the first thing that comes to mind when planning a trip to Rhode Island, a Newport hotel is trying to change that with a week’s worth of Portuguese food and wine, aimed at promoting the heritage of the state’s large population of Portuguese descendants. The inaugural New Portugal Food and Wine Week, hosted by the Castle Hill Inn, March 7 to 14, centers around a four-course meal created by George Mendes, the owner of Aldea restaurant in New York, and Karsten Hart, Castle Hill’s executive chef. Mr. Mendes, whose cooking is inspired by his family’s Portuguese heritage and the culinary traditions of the Iberian Peninsula, will be on hand to prepare the first meal, on Friday, March 7, to be paired with wines selected by Bartholomew Broadbent, whose Broadbent Selections specializes in importing port, Madeira and other wines from Portugal. The meal and pairings will be offered on their own throughout the week, along with wine tastings and other events. Or it can be purchased as part of a “dine and stay” package, which includes a one-night stay in the late-19th-century Narragansett Bay mansion, the New Portugal dinner and breakfast and afternoon tea, starting at $590. The menu features dishes with a mix of traditional and contemporary cuisine: croquettes de bacalhau (salted cod fritters); shrimp alhinho (with smoked baby beets and vanilla); arroz de polvo (octopus rice), pork and c;ams in a smoked seaweed vinho verde broth; and almond sweet bread with Madeira and gooseberries. In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
U.S.   Retro Report. Channels & Shows Home Search U.S. & Politics Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos In bold documentary style, Retro Report looks back at the major stories that shaped the world using fresh interviews, analysis and compelling archival footage. Produced by Retro Report for The New York Times. Recent Episodes in Retro Report Retro Report U.S. & Politics 12:56 A Change of Heart Retro Report U.S. & Politics 11:41 The Terminator and the Washing Machine Retro Report U.S. & Politics 11:31 After Bush v. Gore Retro Report U.S. & Politics 2:02 When Dreams Fly Retro Report U.S. & Politics 8:29 Runaway Plane Retro Report U.S. & Politics 2:03 Is it All in Your Gut? Retro Report U.S. & Politics 1:39 The Unexpected Science of Exercise Retro Report U.S. & Politics 2:03 The Bliss Point Retro Report U.S. & Politics 12:30 A Decades-Long Search for a Perfect Diet Show more videos from Retro Report Most Popular 1 Opinion Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics 2 U.S. Obama Delivers Howard’s Commencement 3 Fashion & Style Bill Cunningham | Garden Party 4 Science Why It’s Hard to Keep the Pounds Off 5 U.S. How Will Obama Spend His Retirement? 6 World The Killing of Farkhunda 7 Science Parrots: The Highlight Reel 8 Opinion A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race 9 Health In Love and Loss 10 Food How to Cut Up a Whole Chicken © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Business   Bond Market in China May See First Local Default. Advertisement Updated, 8:18 p.m. | HONG KONG — Chinese companies have been selling record amounts of bonds on the domestic market in recent years. But in a sign that market forces have not been at work, analysts have been quick to point out, none of them have ever had a default. That may be about to change. A small company in Shanghai has said it is unlikely to meet a Friday deadline for an annual interest payment, putting it at risk of becoming the first company to default in China’s domestic bond market, which could have broader ramifications. The Shanghai Chaori Solar Energy Science and Technology Company, which makes solar cells and panels, issued a stock exchange announcement on Tuesday saying that “due to various uncontrollable factors” the company was unlikely to be able to meet the payment of 89.8 million renminbi, or $14.6 million, on a bond of one billion renminbi that it sold to domestic investors in 2012. Chaori said it had come up with only about 4 million renminbi, meaning that unless it receives a bailout or generates fresh cash, it will default. As of Wednesday, the company did not appear any closer to resolving its debt problem. “Since the official announcement yesterday as regards our debt repayment situation, there has been no additional development thus far,” said Liu Tielong, a spokesman for Chaori. Until now, investors’ concerns about potential problems with debt accumulation in China have tended to focus on ever-expanding local government borrowing or the rapid, often unwieldy, growth of the shadow banking sector. But the prospect of a default in the domestic corporate bond market introduces an additional dimension to assessing the overall picture of China’s indebtedness. “In China’s case, the focus is on the knock-on effects of one default and whether those would prove to be detrimental to the overall bond market,” said Ted Osborn, a partner at PricewaterhouseCoopers in Hong Kong who specializes in debt restructuring. “If one of the domestic bond issuers were to default, would that cause the market to teeter or to crash?” Corporate bonds fell on Wednesday in China. The ChinaBond New Composite Total Return Index, a broad indicator of the market, was down 0.16 percent. Over the last decade, China’s corporate bond market has grown from almost nothing to become the third largest in the world, trailing only those of the United States and Japan, according to figures from the Bank for International Settlements. Total corporate bonds outstanding have risen to 8.5 trillion renminbi at the end of last year, or about $1.4 trillion, from about 500 billion renminbi at the end of 2005, according to official figures were compiled by the Asian Development Bank. Despite its tremendous size, China’s domestic bond market remains underdeveloped. It is still largely closed to foreign investors, and critics say it does a poor job of pricing in risk. The lack of defaults in China’s domestic debt markets has been unusual, even by the country’s own standards. Chinese companies that have sold bonds denominated in dollars to international investors in offshore debt markets have defaulted in the past. A default last year by Suntech Power was a notable example in the solar industry. In this regard, analysts see a potential onshore bond default as having positive implications, a sign that the market is maturing. “We think it’s a good thing, as a normal economy needs defaults to better price bonds and other debt products,” Ting Lu, a China economist, and other analysts at Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch unit wrote on Wednesday in a research note. “Defaults of some debt products are not on a similar scale to a collapse of a major financial institution.” Still, officials have been wary of corporate defaults, not least because they can lead to layoffs and social instability as businesses are shut or otherwise restructured. This is especially true when state-owned companies are involved. Chaori, which is not run by the government, encountered problems making an interest payment on its bonds in early 2013. But at the time, local officials in Shanghai and the company’s state-backed bond underwriter made a deal to cover principal payments so Chaori could meet its interest payments, according to local news media and analyst reports. Given the Friday deadline, a bailout is not out of the question for Chaori. But several analysts on Wednesday interpreted the default as a fait accompli. Letting Chaori default “will help go some way to correct the moral hazard problem in China’s financial sector, and that is positive for the long-term development of the onshore bond market,” Zhiwei Zhang, a China economist at Nomura, wrote on Wednesday in a research note. Because the company has been struggling financially for a while, “the immediate repercussions in the bond market may not be systemic,” he added. “Nonetheless, we continue to expect more credit defaults in the corporate, local government financing vehicle and shadow banking sectors this year.” Hilda Wang contributed reporting. A version of this article appears in print on 03/06/2014, on page B3 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Solar Company Warns It May Be First to Default in China’s Bond Market. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Food   Anna's Espresso. Channels & Shows Home Search New York Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos New York Anna's Espresso By Emily B. Hager | Mar. 4, 2014 | 0:35 Anna Agovino has been making espresso in the Morris Park section of the Bronx for 14 years. She describes the drink as her “gasoline.” Show More PlaylistUp Next in New York Next →   New York1:08 The ‘Indecency of Present Overcrowding’   New York1:16 So You Want to Do a Handstand?   Crimes and Courts1:09 Sheldon Silver Is Sentenced   New York0:18 The New York Commute in the 1930s   New York1:00 Fire Destroys Manhattan Cathedral   New York1:07 A Mass for Construction Workers   U.S.0:18 Lawyer Says Durst Did Not Kill Berman   Food1:46 Beer-Brined Roast Chicken | Taste Makers   Fitness | Nutrition1:03 100 and She Just Won't Stop   Crimes and Courts0:55 Stances at Ex-Officer Liang’s Sentencing © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Foreign   Bangalore Welcomes a Later Last Call. Advertisement BANGALORE — As India’s hub of globalization, Bangalore has long had one major obstacle in its quest to be a truly cosmopolitan city: a lack of nightlife, thanks to a stringent city ordinance mandating an 11:30 p.m. closing time for its many bars and restaurants. On weekends, a familiar scene would play out, starting with the bartenders and waiting staff issuing the last call for orders even before 11 p.m. After a little while, the music would stop and the bouncers would start closing in on those trying to linger. Tales of ambition and youth from India’s outsourcing hub. Even as the staff tried to hurry the guests out, the police would arrive. The customers would start arguing with the staff and the police, but in the end, they would lose. Finally, long before the Cinderella hour, the party would be over. This past weekend, K.J. George, the home minister of the state of Karnataka, of which Bangalore is the capital, said he would allow the city’s bars and restaurants a three-month trial run to extend operations until 1 a.m., as residents were clamoring for the change. The new closing time is likely to go into effect within the next two weeks. Not even the recent announcements of free public Wi-Fi and electric buses on the roads has generated as much excitement in what is known as India’s pub capital, home to a huge population of young professionals. The residents of Bangalore will now be able to enjoy a nightlife like their friends do in Mumbai and Delhi. “Bangalore has finally grown up and got a life,” said Ashwin Nair, 28, a marketing executive at a multinational engineering company who finishes work at 8:30 p.m. and has to scramble to catch a drink with friends. “There will be time to drink a couple of beers and have a decent conversation without worrying about being hustled out,” he said. In the 1980s and 1990s, coinciding with a boom in outsourcing and call centers in Bangalore, pubs, discos and bars proliferated in the city.  They stayed open until late to accommodate young employees working around the clock.  The bars were relaxed spaces where women could drink in public – unheard of even in bigger cities like Delhi at the time – and where bouncers and condom vending machines came into vogue. The proliferation of pubs and bars triggered resentment among older and middle-class residents who believed that the drinking and dancing would destroy Indian culture and ruin their children. In the last decade, however, the city’s understaffed police force has brought in a series of restrictions on such businesses, citing an archaic 1960s law.  So besides forcing pubs and restaurants to shut down at 11:30 p.m., the police have severely curtailed the playing of loud music, dancing and bartending by female employees. “Imagine, the government was constantly telling full-grown, tax-paying adults how to behave,” said Siddharth Poojari, owner of a restaurant chain and a high-profile bar in the upmarket UB City Mall. Mindful that the government will be watching them closely during this trial period, bar owners and restaurateurs said they would take steps to make Bangalore safe even with the extended hours. A few bar owners are talking of introducing in-house breathalyzer tests so that customers can check their blood alcohol levels before taking off.  Others are discussing partnerships with cab companies to ferry customers home. “It is all for the collective good,” Mr. Poojari said.  “We are on a three-month probation; we have to prove that we can behave responsibly.” Young people like Sanjana Nanjappa, 24, a behavior therapist who lives with her parents, will have to figure out how to calm parental fears about staying out later, and that’s where the city authorities can help. Ms. Nanjappa said her parents would feel more reassured if other services like transport, including public transit and taxis, and the police adjusted to the late hours as well. Bangalore’s police force has received $830,000 and approval to hire an additional 2,500 officers from the city government. “We are working out a plan, and we are confident we will handle it well,” said Raghavendra H. Auradkar, the Bangalore police commissioner. Saritha Rai sometimes feels she is the only person living in Bangalore who was actually raised here. There’s never a dull moment in her mercurial metropolis. Reach her on Twitter @SarithaRai. India’s national elections began April 7 and will continue on nine separate dates until May 12, with results expected to be announced on May 16. The vote is the world’s largest, with 814 million eligible voters set to choose 543 members of the lower house of Parliament. The other two seats will be appointed by the president. This election is widely considered to be India’s most consequential since 1977. India Ink will be moving to the World page of The New York Times. Read more… A memorial ceremony at the Imphal War Cemetery in Manipur to honor the soldiers who died during World War II.Read more… The newly elected prime minister reaches out to the public in a blog post about his first 30 days in office.Read more… Newborns whose mothers are unable to breastfeed are given stored breast milk to protect them from potentially life-threatening infection.Read more… In the final stage of a long decline, Hindustan Motors announced in May that it would suspend production of the Ambassador, a car that was once synonymous with style and status.Read more… This report on India from the journalists of The New York Times and a pool of talented writers in India and beyond provides unbiased, authoritative reporting on the country and its place in the world. India Ink also strives to be a virtual meeting point for discussion of this complex, fast-changing democracy – its politics, economy, culture and everyday life. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Movies   Steve McQueen on ’12 Years a Slave’. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Video Steve McQueen on ’12 Years a Slave’ By Shern Sharma | Mar. 4, 2014 | 1:08 The director spoke with Melena Ryzik of The Times on the red carpet before the Oscars, where his film was named best picture of the year. Show More PlaylistUp Next in Video Next → Op-Docs: Season 5 9:23 I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked   Video1:08 Hitting all the Right Notes Op-Docs: Season 5 13:33 Manufacturing China’s Future Op-Docs: Season 5 6:05 Fashion vs. Art   Video0:56 Excerpt: ‘The Father’   Video0:33 Excerpt: ‘Exit Strategy’ Op-Docs: Season 5 7:19 A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race   Video1:58 Excerpt: ‘Antlia Pneumatica’   News Clips: Europe1:20 Officials React to Panama Papers   News Clips: Europe3:47 Mossack Fonseca on Data Leak © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Science   Is Breast-Feeding Really Better? Sign Up for the Running Email. Advertisement Many women who are unable to breast-feed feel guilty about it and worry they may be depriving their children of a range of benefits. Groups like the American Academy of Pediatrics and the World Health Organization recommend six months of exclusive breast-feeding for all infants, citing studies that show breast milk is easily digestible and has nutrients that are superior to or absent from infant formulas, including immunological substances that reduce rates of infection and fatty acids important in brain development. But now a new study suggests that many of the long-term benefits attributed to breast-feeding may be an effect not of breast-feeding or breast milk itself but of the general good health and prosperity of women who choose to breast-feed. Researchers at Ohio State University compared 1,773 sibling pairs, one of whom had been breast-fed and one bottle-fed, on 11 measures of health and intellectual competency. The children ranged in age from 4 to 14 years. The researchers recorded various health and behavioral outcomes in the sibling pairs, including body mass index, obesity, asthma, hyperactivity, reading comprehension, math ability and memory-based intelligence. The study, published online in Social Science & Medicine, found no statistically significant differences between the breast-fed and bottle-fed siblings on any of these measures. By studying “discordant” siblings — one of whom had been breast-fed and the other not — the authors sought to minimize the possibility that racial, socioeconomic, educational or other differences between families could affect the results. Many earlier studies on breast-feeding failed to control for such factors, they say. Campaigns to increase the rate of breast-feeding have been highly successful in recent years. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, about three-quarters of American mothers now breast-feed, compared with less than two-thirds in 2000, and about 49 percent are still breast-feeding at six months, compared with 34 percent in 2000. Yet despite this increase, researchers have consistently found large socioeconomic and racial disparities in breast-feeding rates. A C.D.C. survey in 2008 found that 75 percent of white infants and 59 percent of black infants were ever breast-fed, and in 2013, the agency reported that 47 percent of white babies but only 30 percent of black babies were still being breast-fed at 6 months. Compared with bottle-fed infants, breast-fed babies are more likely to be born into families with higher incomes, have parents with higher educational attainments, and live in safer neighborhoods with easier access to health care services. Still, sibling studies such as this latest one do not solve all the problems of bias. “We were not able to control for everything that could affect what would make a mom breast-feed one child and not the other,” said the lead author, Cynthia G. Colen, an assistant professor of sociology at Ohio State. “But we did control for premature birth, birth order, the age of the mother, and whether she was working when she had one infant and not when she had the other.” Geoff Der, a statistician at the University of Glasgow who has worked with the same data in previous studies, said that the findings in the present study were robust and the authors’ method for eliminating selection bias was powerful. He had reassuring words for women who do not or cannot breast-feed. “In a society with a clean water supply and modern formulas,” he said, “a woman who isn’t able to breast-feed shouldn’t be feeling guilty, and the likelihood that there’s any harm to the baby is pretty slim.” Your health questions answered by Times journalists and experts. Your Questions | All » Get Well's Running email for practical tips, expert advice, exclusive content and a bit of motivation delivered to your inbox every week to help you on your running journey. Coming soon. How much do you know about the amazing things that go on in your gut? Take our quiz to find out about the creepy, crawly critters living in your home. What surface is the most friendly to the flu virus? Where’s the best place to stand when you’re talking to a sick person? How does sleep affect health, relationships and well-being? The “Reading the Mind in the Eyes Test” measures ability to understand others’ emotional states. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   Golson Back at Practice. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content Skip to navigation View mobile version The New York Times College Football|Golson Back at Practice Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go http://nyti.ms/1c3mcCu Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Supported by College Football | Sports Briefing | College Football Golson Back at Practice By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 3, 2014 Continue reading the main story Share This Page Continue reading the main story Notre Dame quarterback Everett Golson returned to the practice field for the first time in 10 months, participating in spring drills after being suspended for the fall semester for academic impropriety. Coach Brian Kelly has said that Malik Zaire will compete with Golson for the starter’s job. Continue reading the main story What's Next Loading... Go to Home Page » Site Index The New York Times Site Index Navigation News World U.S. Politics N.Y. Business Tech Science Health Sports Education Obituaries Today's Paper Corrections Opinion Today's Opinion Op-Ed Columnists Editorials Contributing Writers Op-Ed Contributors Opinionator Letters Sunday Review Taking Note Room for Debate Public Editor Video: Opinion Arts Today's Arts Art & Design ArtsBeat Books Dance Movies Music N.Y.C. Events Guide Television Theater Video: Arts Living Automobiles Crossword Food Education Fashion & Style Health Jobs Magazine N.Y.C. Events Guide Real Estate T Magazine Travel Weddings & Celebrations Listings & More Classifieds Tools & Services Times Topics Public Editor N.Y.C. Events Guide Blogs Multimedia Photography Video NYT Store Times Journeys Subscribe Manage My Account Subscribe Subscribe Times Insider Home Delivery Digital Subscriptions NYT Opinion Crossword Email Newsletters Alerts Gift Subscriptions Corporate Subscriptions Education Rate Mobile Applications Replica Edition International New York Times Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Travel   In Newark Airport Lounge, Israeli Art. Advertisement A new lounge at Newark Liberty International Airport is providing an artistic – -and kosher — respite for travelers to Israel who might be looking for more than just free Wi-Fi and contemporary furniture while they wait. “Art & Lounge,” in Newark’s Terminal B, serves as place to relax but also a gallery for a rotation of Israeli artists, featuring installations curated by Lital Dotan and Eyal Perry, two artists from Tel Aviv who have made a life’s practice of turning their homes into live exhibition spaces, and exhibition spaces into their home. (They now operate the Glasshouse Project in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, which they describe as an “art-life-lab.”) The couple’s first show at the Newark lounge, called “Window Seat,” replaces the typical nonstop news broadcast on lounge televisions with a metaphorical airplane window, a video presentation of several landscapes created by four artists: Miriam Cabessa, Oded Hirsch, Shay Kun and Tom Pnini, who each contributed other works as well. “In the frame of a house,” the curators explained in a statement about the exhibition, “a window seat has romantic associations, as they are often identified with luxury of spare time.” In airplanes, they added, the window seat serves as a dimension of psychological space and in an airport terminal it is “a space of transition and restlessness, and manifests a state of in-between, which is why ‘Window Seat’ offers an invitation to stay, pause, reflect, before moving on to the next destination.” An assortment of healthy and kosher foods, picked by Shmulik Markus, a chef and the chief executive of Restotel, an Israeli hospitality and restaurant company, are also available to visitors, along with a selection of wine and beer. El Al Airlines has been the first to make use of the lounge since it opened in November, offering free access to its premier passengers. But Luxury Lounges Ltd., the design firm that created the space, hopes to open it up to more travelers for a fee — around $35 — in the near future. In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
U.S.   Obama Discusses Budget for 2015. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Video Obama Discusses Budget for 2015 Mar. 4, 2014 | 0:18 The president unveiled his $4 trillion budget for the 2015 fiscal year, which proposes tax credits for the working poor. Show More PlaylistUp Next in Video Next → Op-Docs: Season 5 9:23 I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked   Video1:08 Hitting all the Right Notes Op-Docs: Season 5 13:33 Manufacturing China’s Future Op-Docs: Season 5 6:05 Fashion vs. Art   Video0:56 Excerpt: ‘The Father’   Video0:33 Excerpt: ‘Exit Strategy’ Op-Docs: Season 5 7:19 A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race   Video1:58 Excerpt: ‘Antlia Pneumatica’   News Clips: Europe1:20 Officials React to Panama Papers   News Clips: Europe3:47 Mossack Fonseca on Data Leak © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Business   Scrub Up. Advertisement By Daniel Raymon Mar 6, 2014 The New York Times Crossword is available through subscription only. THURSDAY’S PUZZLE — Erno RUBIK, the Hungarian architect who is best known for inventing the Rubik’s Cube, once said that “the problems of puzzles are very near the problems of life.” So if your life doesn’t have enough problems already, take a crack at Daniel Raymon’s rebus, which will help you meet your quota. I will resist the urge to say too much about the rebus, but I’ll just say that the easiest point of entry is at 19 Across if you remember that “Cajun French” is a DIALECT. The puzzle holds up in the non-theme answer department, too. There are several entries that include the letters J and K, which can be tough to place in a crossword. Just to pick a few as examples, there’s JAMBS and JINX, and KABOB and KARAT. Daniel’s notes are below. But beware, as there are spoilers. This is my first Thursday puzzle so I’m very excited for everyone to see it. It’s especially exciting to have my very own creation join the group of NYT rebus puzzles. On that note, there have been other rebus puzzles using “box” phrases as revealers, just like this one. One thing that makes mine a little different, I think, is that each rebus box is a different word. I also like how I was able to split up both ZEST and TONE in two different ways; not so for LAVA and DIAL, but at least there’s some symmetry there — two split up differently, two not. I also like the long answers for the most part, though PASADENA, BRUSSELS and BRATIS[LAVA] might be a bit too much geography for one puzzle. Also RA[DIAL] TIRE and PIS[TON E]NGINE are a bit bland, especially for theme answers. Oh well. Overall I’m very happy with the puzzle, and I hope you enjoy it too! For today’s video, a classic by OTIS Redding. How did you fare? Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. David Kahn puts us through the wringer.Read more… Emily Cox and Henry Rathvon offer us a challenging cryptic crossword puzzle.Read more… A place for solvers to discuss and ask questions about the “A Little Variety” suite of puzzles.Read more… Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Fashion   Saint Laurent’s Teen Spirit. Advertisement Advertisement By SUZY MENKESMARCH 4, 2014 PARIS — At Saint Laurent, the designer Hedi Slimane became one of the first to drag fashion across the screen and take it downtown. Even when the clothes in his winter 2009 show were tailored and smartened up, the models acted like young women with a “don’t care” attitude. Mr. Slimane stood backstage this week alongside one such woman: Clementine Creevy, 17, whose song “Teenage Girl,” originally sent to Rookie magazine, went viral. Expect the same for the sweet notes of “Had Ten Dollarz,” recorded especially for the Saint Laurent show in Paris on Monday. If these young women with mascara-drenched eyes had $10 or, realistically, 100 times more, they would surely buy every one of Saint Laurent’s new pieces right off the runway, including the tailored coats stopping precisely where a short skirt, often twinkling with sequins, draws a line across the pantyhose that runs down to a pair of glittering Mary Janes. The short skirts, sweaters with Aran detail and the ever-present tailoring were all wearable, although not inventive other than in presentation. There is something mesmerizing about Mr. Slimane’s Saint Laurent shows. As ever, the set was simple but hyper-sophisticated, with hydraulic metal bars folding down and then swinging up to create a long catwalk. It no doubt represented a road in Los Angeles, where friends were gathered, each reeking of sexuality from behind a black bow on a white satin collar or from the rounded capes, cut off just at that point on the thighs where a plaid kilt, scattered with sparkles, stopped. These young women did not look as if they were having as much fun as two of the front-row guests, Alex Turner and Miles Kane, the British musicians behind the group The Last Shadow Puppets who were swigging down a bottle of champagne. But there was something charming about the clothes, their proportions and the way the glitter came like puddles on asphalt to lighten the taut tailoring. The droopy cardigans of Mr. Slimane’s earlier collections had been swept away and sweet flower patterns mostly extinguished. There were still frissons of bad girls, as seen in a dress printed with guns that also appeared in some of the pictures produced from the ashes of paintings that the Los Angeles artist John Baldessari had burned. Mr. Slimane said backstage that Mr. Baldessari had been the show’s first inspiration. A thematic visual diary of Paris Fashion Week inspired by the essential building blocks of fashion and style. “The project I did with John gave me the idea of proportion,” said the designer, whose short hemlines under the rounded capes created the memory stick of the show. “I started with three dresses, then the cape was a logic of evolution.” Is it right for a designer to present clothes that seem to be reincarnations of what is already on the teen scene? With each collection, the Saint Laurent of Mr. Slimane seems increasingly convincing, a reinterpretation of the iconic designer of the early 1970s. (Significantly, the designer and that period are the subject of two current French films.) Advertisement The rejuvenated Saint Laurent girl has arrived in fashion. Or, as the Clementine Creevy lyrics go, “I know that she knows that it’s my way.” Go to Home Page »
Foreign   Image of the Day: March 5. Advertisement   India’s national elections began April 7 and will continue on nine separate dates until May 12, with results expected to be announced on May 16. The vote is the world’s largest, with 814 million eligible voters set to choose 543 members of the lower house of Parliament. The other two seats will be appointed by the president. This election is widely considered to be India’s most consequential since 1977. India Ink will be moving to the World page of The New York Times. Read more… A memorial ceremony at the Imphal War Cemetery in Manipur to honor the soldiers who died during World War II.Read more… The newly elected prime minister reaches out to the public in a blog post about his first 30 days in office.Read more… Newborns whose mothers are unable to breastfeed are given stored breast milk to protect them from potentially life-threatening infection.Read more… In the final stage of a long decline, Hindustan Motors announced in May that it would suspend production of the Ambassador, a car that was once synonymous with style and status.Read more… This report on India from the journalists of The New York Times and a pool of talented writers in India and beyond provides unbiased, authoritative reporting on the country and its place in the world. India Ink also strives to be a virtual meeting point for discussion of this complex, fast-changing democracy – its politics, economy, culture and everyday life. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Science   Music Born of Magical Thinking. Advertisement   It can’t be funny, I told myself. The tunes might be fabulous — after all, Ms. Brooke won critics’ praise for setting Woody Guthrie’s journal entries to music. But oh, those monologues about her mother would be unbearable. How much better to stay home and cry over doomed romance than inexorable death. But off I went to the Duke Theater on 42nd Street for a performance both funny and wrenching, one I suspect would resonate with caregivers everywhere. I met Ms. Brooke later for a conversation about her mother and the events described on stage. Lanky in the jeans and flannel shirt she wears during performances, her long hair tied loosely back, she could have been any of us with little time for glamour. Among the more than 15 million Americans providing unpaid care for family and friends with Alzheimer’s and other dementias, at least three – Ms. Brooke, 50; her manager/director/husband, Patrick Rains, 64; and his sister, Julie, 60, underemployed and “couch surfing” – managed to find endless humor in a family crisis that unfolded from 2010 to 2012, as Ms. Brooke’s mother descended deeper into Alzheimer’s. Ms. Brooke had a lifetime of practice dealing with her mother, whose florid wackiness and succession of illnesses, long before Alzheimer’s, would have sent most children running for the hills. Instead the two were linked, said Ms. Brooke, as if there were “an electrical current running between us.” She was one of three children — the youngest, the only girl and the lone skeptic in a devout family of Christian Scientists in Boston. The language of the religion, its lessons and allegiances, “never leave you once you’ve been indoctrinated,’’ Ms. Brooke said.  Those four noses, it turns out, are the collected prostheses her mother, Darren Stone Nelson, wore after untreated skin cancer had turned her into a “maxillofacial work of art,” as Ms. Brooke put it. The cure for what ailed her mother, in the Christian Science view, was Mary Baker Eddy’s unwavering belief that divine love “always will meet every human need.” The same was true when Mrs. Nelson had a uterine tumor. By comparison, her terrible arthritis seemed a mere inconvenience. “Mom was a magical thinker,” Ms. Brooke said. “So I was burdened with reality.” If the material world were an illusion, as she was taught, then so is sickness and death. Ms. Brooke took her first Advil at 30. She has attended just one funeral, her father-in-law’s. Perhaps it’s understandable that dementia didn’t occur to Ms. Brooke as an explanation for her mother’s increasingly erratic behavior until she was well down the road. This was a woman who found a rainbow wig in the town dump and wore it constantly when her daughter was an easily embarrassed seventh grader. It was the postman who hesitantly suggested that Mrs. Nelson didn’t belong alone at home anymore. An independent or assisted living facility seemed the solution, as it does to so many of us. Ms. Brooke quickly settled her mother into a home for aged Christian Scientists in Massachusetts. She visited, dined with her mother’s new friends, each with more grievously untreated maladies than the next. “Mental malpractice,’’ Ms. Brooke calls it now. Mrs. Nelson’s hygiene was wanting, a common Alzheimer’s symptom, and the staff let her get away with excuses rather than insisting she shower. “Now isn’t a good time,” she’d say. Or “I’m in the middle of something.” Ms. Brooke eventually realized that “hymns three times a week is not going to cut it.’’ Terrified and ignorant, but determined and mindful, she said, that “I’m my mother’s only daughter,’’ Ms. Brooke brought her to New York City. Home was, and remains, Apartment 7K in a rental building on upper (waaaaaaay upper) Fifth Avenue. Ms. Brooke rented an apartment on the third floor and moved her mother there. “I could see her window from my living room,’’ she said. Their first enormous challenge, as Ms. Brooke describes it in the play, was dealing with her mother’s painful, unrelenting constipation. Once, just ‘‘clipping her toenails creeped me out.’’ Now, it was suppositories and enemas — and “poetry in this terrible intimacy,’’ a transition many caregivers will recognize. Before long, Mrs. Nelson “became the crazy lady screaming down the hall.’’ The singer and songwriter sings the number “Time” from her show “My Mother Has 4 Noses,” at the Duke on 42nd Street. Hoping to relieve her mother’s excruciating arthritic pain, Ms. Brooke agreed to have her undergo a knee replacement. There was not a word of warning from doctors that this wasn’t a great idea for a woman too cognitively impaired for physical therapy. After surgery, Mrs. Nelson hallucinated for a week, Ms. Brooke recalled, and attempts at rehabilitation were like scenes from “One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest.’’ Within months of the ill-advised operation, a hospice team joined the crowd in Mrs. Nelson’s apartment. Still this hardy woman lingered, from hospice’s arrival in October until the next January. On a Saturday night, the nurses said her mother was “actively dying,’’ common end-of-life parlance but alien vocabulary to a Christian Scientist. Ms. Brooke longed for her brothers, “lovely, beautiful men.” But they were too steeped in their religion, she said, for a deathbed vigil. Mrs. Nelson’s caretakers read her Mary Baker Eddy’s version of the 23rd Psalm. They watched Christian Science church services online. “We really tried to speak the language, honor the lessons,’’ Ms. Brooke said, but religion seemed to have lost her power, and her mother seemed more enamored of Chanel No. 5, her favorite perfume, which her daughter sprayed in the air. Monday became Tuesday. Mrs. Nelson’s breathing was thready. When her time came, “she really did just slip away,” Ms. Brooke said. Waiting for the undertaker, Ms. Brooke, her husband and sister-in-law, and the caregivers sang sublime hymns and ridiculous ditties like “How Much Is That Doggie in the Window.’’ A man arrived with a black body bag, loaded it, disinfected his hands, rode down to the lobby and pushed the gurney down Fifth Avenue to his van. The gurney fit easily in the elevator, Ms. Brooke said, because long ago the apartment building had been a nursing home. That detail is not in the performance, but, Ms. Brooke said, “the irony isn’t lost on me.” Jane Gross is The New Old Age’s founding blogger and author of “A Bittersweet Season: Caring for Our Aging Parents — and Ourselves” (Alfred A. Knopf/Vintage). The blog is ending, but our coverage of caregiving and aging is not. The New Old Age will run as a twice-monthly column by Paula Span on nytimes.com and frequently in Science Times. Read more… At many nursing homes and assisted living places, a resident’s passing may be hardly noted.Read more… Circumstances had changed, and all these documents needed to change, too. Read more… Lifestyle modification prevents Type 2 diabetes even more effectively in the elderly than in middle-aged patients.Read more… Julianne Moore gives a wonderful performance in “Still Alice,” but the film skirts the truth about dementia.Read more… Thanks to the marvels of medical science, our parents are living longer than ever before. Most will spend years dependent on others for the most basic needs. That burden falls to their baby boomer children. The New Old Age blog explored this unprecedented intergenerational challenge. Paula Span will continue to write New Old Age columns twice monthly at nytimes.com/health and the conversation will continue on Twitter (@paula_span) and Facebook. A few medical institutions have opened their doors to patients’ own dogs and cats. Scheduling and medication errors plague patients with Parkinson's. Dementia doesn't respect public stature. Is there life after caregiving, and if so what it is like? Comprehensive reference and special reports about diseases, conditions, tests, injuries and surgeries. Useful information, tools, and links to organizations around the Web. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   Researching a Snowboarding Trip. Channels & Shows Home Search Sports Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Sports Researching a Snowboarding Trip Mar. 5, 2014 | 3:15 Throughout the past six years, Jeremy Jones has traveled to Alaska to snowboard new zones under his own power. With each trip, he has refined how he researches these areas. Show More PlaylistUp Next in Sports Next →   The Royal Family1:33 Prince Harry Promotes Invictus Games   Europe0:60 Police Accept Blame for Hillsborough Disaster   Europe0:46 Families Sing After Hillsborough Ruling   Sports1:24 UConn Reflects on Record-Breaking Win   News Clips: Sports2:20 John John Florence Wins ‘the Eddie’   Sports1:51 ‘Human Sacrifice’: Debating Football’s Future   Blood and Sport3:32 Ken Stabler and C.T.E.   Sports5:01 Addicted to a Fantasy   Paris Attacks1:51 French Soccer Team Sings National Anthem   Sports6:27 Drone Racing Dreams © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Travel   New Trips for Cycling in the City. Advertisement If bicycling along the scenic countryside is getting a little ho-hum, Bicycle Adventures offers an alternative. The outfitter just began the Urban Adventure Series, four-day trips designed for the city lover — this year in Seattle; Portland and Bend, Ore.; and New York City. “You can see, hear and smell the city up close, and it’s so easy to stop, hop off and explore a shop or a cafe, have a conversation or admire art or city culture,” Todd Starnes, the owner of Bicycle Adventures, said in a release. The Seattle trip includes the urban and suburban Burke-Gilman Trail; the John Wayne Pioneer Trail, east of town; and of course the waterfront, including Pike Place Market. A ferry ride over to Bainbridge Island takes cyclists to Classic Cycle to check out its vintage bike museum. Portland riders will hit the Eastbank Esplanade path and the West Hills neighborhood for a skyline view, stopping along the way to smell the barley at Velocult, a bike shop, taproom, coffee house, and more. The Bend Breakaway visits microbreweries, boutiques and galleries in nearby Sisters, and features rides surrounded by snow-capped peaks. Guests also have the opportunity to bike to McKenzie Pass, one of central Oregon’s most spectacular scenic byways. The spring tour of New York City starts with an introduction to Manhattan, a ride around Central Park and a Broadway show, and ends on May 4 with the TD Five Boro Bike Tour, said to be the world’s biggest recreational bike ride, with about 32,000 participants. Riders pedal through all five boroughs on streets free of automobile traffic. Rates for the three West Coast trips are $1,984 per person, double, and the New York trip is $2,495 per person, which includes bikes, lodging and most meals. A version of this article appears in print on 03/16/2014, on page TR3 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Biking: City Tours: Four Days to Pedal. In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
U.S.   A Moose Mystery. Channels & Shows Home Search U.S. & Politics Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos U.S. & Politics A Moose Mystery By Brent McDonald | Mar. 5, 2014 | 7:17 Moose in Minnesota are dying at an alarming rate, and biologists are racing to understand what's behind the rapid decline. Related: article: Minnesota Mystery: What’s Killing the Moose? article: Moose Die-Off Alarms Scientists Show More PlaylistUp Next in U.S. & Politics Next →   U.S. & Politics2:22 Obama Delivers Howard’s Commencement   U.S. & Politics1:27 Obama Introduces New Tax Rules   U.S. & Politics0:28 Suspect Arrested in Maryland Shootings   U.S. & Politics1:01 Shooting at Maryland Mall   U.S. & Politics1:39 Obama on Trump’s Campaign   U.S. & Politics0:50 Trump on the Economy in Coal Country   U.S. & Politics1:08 Clinton Issues a Warning on Trump   U.S. & Politics0:33 Lawmaker's Removal Adds to Brazil's Turmoil   U.S. & Politics1:06 Ban on Selling E-Cigarettes to Minors   Europe0:47 Cameron Maintains View on Trump’s Policy © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Business   Japan Won’t Impose Banking Laws on Bitcoin. Advertisement TOKYO — Bitcoin trading platforms can, for now, operate freely under Japanese law, the government said Friday in a note that signaled a hands-off approach to the virtual currency. In fact, Bitcoin is not a currency at all and is not subject to Japan’s stringent banking laws, officials said in a six-page paper that highlighted uncertainties more than clarifying the issues surrounding the digital payment system. The paper did confirm that transactions using Bitcoin are not considered banking and that an exchange trading them does not need to obtain a banking license or to meet compliance standards that such a license would require.  But the status of Bitcoin also makes it off-limits for Japanese banks, seemingly leaving the handling of them up to unregulated operators like Mt. Gox, the Tokyo-based exchange that filed for bankruptcy protection last week after losing half a billion dollars’ worth of its customers’ Bitcoin. Like any other commodity, however, Bitcoin is subject to taxes in Japan, the paper said. It left unclear whether the simple purchase of Bitcoins would be subject to Japan’s 5 percent sales tax, which is set to rise to 8 percent in April. Toshinori Matsushio, an official at the National Tax Agency, said that Bitcoin purchases were likely to be slapped with the sales tax unless they were singled out for exemption, much as postage stamps are in Japan. It would also be virtually impossible for the government to levy taxes on peer-to-peer sales. In this regard, Japan’s regulatory approach seemed to differ from that taken by other countries. According to a statement this week by the UK Digital Currency Association, British revenue and customs officials are set to announce that virtual currencies should be treated almost identically to other currencies in terms of taxation. That would mean no sales tax would be levied on Bitcoin sales and transactions. Still, the paper stressed that discussions would continue on the details of how Bitcoin would be taxed, as well as the need for more regulation to better protect Bitcoin users. Japan “has not yet grasped a complete picture” of Bitcoin, the paper said, and various government agencies are still “collecting information.” Now that Bitcoin has been deemed beyond the limits of Japan’s financial regulator, basic oversight and the drafting of more detailed guidelines could be left to the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry or the consumer protection agency. In a news conference, the top government spokesman, Yoshihide Suga, said investigations of the Mt. Gox collapse could make it necessary for the government to review or revise its response. When asked to clarify how Bitcoin might be taxed, Mr. Suga gave no details. “Of course, the Finance Ministry would be thinking of various ways to tax it,” he said. The government prepared its note in response to questions submitted to Parliament by an opposition lawmaker, Tsutomu Okubo, a former managing director for Morgan Stanley. The cabinet approved the paper Friday morning. Colin Moreshead contributed reporting from Tokyo. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   To Change India’s Preference for Sons, Start With the Women. Advertisement   I first visited India as a tourist in 1971 at the age of 27. I spent six months backpacking through the country and was surprised to find so many people everywhere, even in the remote countryside. Mothers were always surrounded by small children, only a year or so apart in age. Coming from a sparsely populated country like Canada where, even then, small families were the norm, I was intrigued by India’s rapidly growing population. What lay behind it, and why did Indian women have so many children? In 1974, I returned to study this question as a doctoral student at the University of Pune and selected the village of Gove in Satara District, Maharashtra, for my research. Most women said they wanted only three or four children, but they had an average of 5.6. The key determining factor was the number of sons they had — they would keep having children until a boy was born. I completed two follow-up studies in Gove in 1987 and 2008. In 2008, son preference was still evident: For every village girl aged 6 or younger, there were 1.4 boys. My new book, “Gender Equality and Inequality in Rural India: Blessed With a Son,” is based on those studies and explores the intersection of longstanding cultural norms, socioeconomic context and a rising India. In 2008, despite tremendous economic progress, gender inequality remained entrenched. Parents still had to give huge gifts (instead of dowry, now illegal) to get their daughters married. Girls typically signed away their land to brothers at the time of their marriage. Most young brides, even those with secondary and tertiary education, were confined to the household and experienced pressure from their mothers-in-law to have children as quickly as possible. For boys, education was considered a means of securing a good job; for girls, it was seen as a precursor to homemaking and motherhood. Although couples now wanted only one or two children, they still felt compelled to have sons. Gender bias affects the way women are viewed and treated in their communities, which on a larger scale deters them from contributing fully to the global economy. In 2008, only 7 percent of married Gove women worked in white-collar jobs like teaching and office work. Interestingly, these women made more use of modern contraceptives and delayed having their first children longer than unemployed women with the same amount of schooling. Moreover, these women were also significantly more willing to stop having children after only one or two, even if they did not have sons. Despite the persistence of son preference, my research identified promising areas for change in rural women’s position. In 1975 and 1987, families felt they needed more sons to provide for them and support them in old age. Correspondingly, girls were not given an opportunity to continue their studies beyond eight or nine years. I believed that providing girls an avenue to be on an equal footing with sons — through education — would be a first step toward reducing the gender bias. In 1987, I established a modest scholarship program, administered by village trustees, to fund the college education of one girl every year for up to four years. I knew this was breaking new ground: The trustees, in fact, tried to persuade me to focus on boys because they did not think any girl would apply. To their surprise, one girl did apply in the first year and became the first girl from Gove to independently commute by bus to the district capital of Satara, 14 kilometers, or about nine miles, away, participate in extracurricular activities and navigate life in the city. The next year, two girls applied, and from there, female college attendance grew, underscoring a recognition in the community that girls of any caste or economic class could pursue a higher education. Most of those awarded scholarships had mixed success in completing their studies, but their exposure to the outside world helped them face the future confidently. Several of them told me that they felt no need to have sons because girls could “stand on their own feet” and look out for their welfare, even after marriage. This was found to be true: In case studies with 30 widows, two said they had received financial support from their daughters during economic hardship. In addition to education and jobs, stricter enforcement of the Hindu Succession Act, which allows girls equal shares of family property, could increase gender equality. Indeed, more young men in 2008 expected their sisters to receive shares of family property than previously. As land becomes scarce, neither girls nor boys can anticipate inheriting large parcels of land, but daughters should be compensated equally for what they sign away. The government could also establish bank accounts for daughters with mandatory deposits equal to the value of land or other assets received by sons in any inheritance transactions. Such a policy would need to be carefully monitored to assure that daughters’ rights could not be alienated. A promising government pilot project designed to promote reproductive health and improve the sex ratio is what is known as the “honeymoon package,” initiated in Satara District in 2007. It provides monetary incentives for couples who postpone their first births two to three years, which in turn provides a window of time for women to work before having children. Couples who enroll in the program pledge to monitor the health of the woman and report any pregnancy, so that the selective abortion of female fetuses is less likely to occur. It is too early to assess whether the honeymoon package has been successful in reducing son preference, but 2011 census data does show an improvement in the sex ratio. Satara District, which previously had a lower female-to-male sex ratio than Maharashtra, reported 988 to 1,000 males in 2011, compared with 922 females to 1,000 males for the state as a whole. Progressive Indian couples have found ways to rejoice in having daughters, such as allowing girls to perform special rituals at the death of their parents, encouraging them to find rewarding jobs and refusing to give lavish wedding gifts to get them married. A few Gove families, in fact, refused gifts in exchange for marriage arrangements, and with the rising age of marriage, more families were allowing girls to work for a few years before their marriage. The potential of rural women’s modern employment offers tremendous advantages, not only for individual women, but also for India. According to Gallup surveys from 2009 to 2012, only 25 percent of Indian women were employed or seeking work in the labor force compared with 70 percent in China; whereas for men, the difference was negligible (83 percent in China, 80 percent in India). As my study shows, young married rural women are a huge untapped potential with much to contribute, both to India’s growth story and to the enhancement of gender equality. Dr. Vlassoff is a Canadian demographer and women’s health specialist with a long career in international development. Her book, “Gender Equality and Inequality in Rural India: Blessed With a Son,” will be released in India on March 10. India’s national elections began April 7 and will continue on nine separate dates until May 12, with results expected to be announced on May 16. The vote is the world’s largest, with 814 million eligible voters set to choose 543 members of the lower house of Parliament. The other two seats will be appointed by the president. This election is widely considered to be India’s most consequential since 1977. India Ink will be moving to the World page of The New York Times. Read more… A memorial ceremony at the Imphal War Cemetery in Manipur to honor the soldiers who died during World War II.Read more… The newly elected prime minister reaches out to the public in a blog post about his first 30 days in office.Read more… Newborns whose mothers are unable to breastfeed are given stored breast milk to protect them from potentially life-threatening infection.Read more… In the final stage of a long decline, Hindustan Motors announced in May that it would suspend production of the Ambassador, a car that was once synonymous with style and status.Read more… This report on India from the journalists of The New York Times and a pool of talented writers in India and beyond provides unbiased, authoritative reporting on the country and its place in the world. India Ink also strives to be a virtual meeting point for discussion of this complex, fast-changing democracy – its politics, economy, culture and everyday life. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Home   Break It and No Allowance. Advertisement Advertisement On Location By SANDY KEENAN MARCH 5, 2014 In one corner of the room, playing on a thin glass screen dangling from the ceiling by wires, was a moody animated video from “The Last Clown” installation by the artist Francis Alys on a continuous loop: a solitary man making his way along a path in an anonymous park. Nearby, apparently in perpetual motion as well, an 8-year-old boy wielded a full-size hockey stick and a hard orange ball, weaving around the glass screen and other museum-caliber artworks, a practice allowed, and even encouraged, by the current management. If this were a piece of performance art, it might be titled something like “A Curator’s Nervous Breakdown.” But the setting was neither a gallery nor a museum. It was the home of Clay and Tom Tarica, avid art collectors who decided long ago to ignore the conventional wisdom that art and children don’t mix. The trick, it turns out, is that the crucial ingredient is a little extra space. Until 2007, the couple lived with babies, cribs and crates of art in a cramped one-bedroom apartment in Greenwich Village, where they often went years without seeing much of the extensive collection they had amassed. Advertisement That all changed after they bought a 1950s ranch house in Larchmont, N.Y., for $1.65 million and hired Andrew Berman, an architect in Manhattan, to reimagine it so that their family and their art collection could coexist happily. (The renovation, completed in 2009, cost about $1 million.) “They were very clear,” Mr. Berman said. “They wanted to live comfortably with their art and their children in a house that was very calm, very clean and unprepossessing — with nothing off-limits to the kids.” Mr. Tarica, 43, an executive at a shoe company that his grandparents founded in 1956 (his family no longer owns it), and Ms. Tarica, 40, who was an assistant at the Museum of Modern Art when they met, now have a five-bedroom, 3,400-square-foot home with plenty of room for their growing art collection and their growing family, which she oversees: Madeleine, 10; Will, 8; and Sam, who is nearly 3. During a recent weekend snowstorm, the children created a pillow fort by moving furniture and bedding into the living room, where they were surrounded with works by Olafur Eliasson, Tomma Abts, Carol Bove and Christopher Williams, among others. Madeline helped drag in all the dining room chairs, and Sam brought his blanket. The impromptu structure was meant to be a stadium for Will’s Stuffed Animal Football League, or S.A.F.L., a group currently dominated by a family of panda bears. But kids wouldn’t be kids if they didn’t push some boundaries, and at one point Will went back to practicing hockey, this time attempting to use the fireplace as the goal. “Are you kidding me,” Mr. Tarica said, barely raising his voice. “Please cut that out.” Over the course of their 12-year-marriage, the couple have developed a shared understanding of not just child rearing, but also art. Ms. Tarica tends to be slow and deliberate about her choices, she said, while her husband is more impetuous. Advertisement “In the end," she added, “we usually agree on everything — art, design, furniture — which is good.” They’re hoping their passion for art will eventually rub off on the children. In the meantime, it’s enough that nothing has been hurt or ruined. “Intuitively, they know how to keep their bodies away from the art,” Ms. Tarica said. And when the children’s friends come over for play dates, she said, Will takes it upon himself to issue a warning. “Just be careful around the art,” he tells them. “Some of it is really fragile.” A version of this article appears in print on March 6, 2014, on page D4 of the New York edition with the headline: Break It and No Allowance. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe See More » Go to Home Page »
Movies   This Week’s Movies. Channels & Shows Home Search Culture Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos The ultimate film lover’s guide: The Times critics A.O. Scott, Manohla Dargis and Stephen Holden offer their picks for the week’s best movies, from blockbusters to hidden gems. Recent Episodes in This Week’s Movies This Week’s Movies Culture 3:14 This Week’s Movies | April 8, 2016 This Week’s Movies Culture 3:34 This Week’s Movies | April 1, 2016 This Week’s Movies Culture 3:20 This Week’s Movies | March 25, 2016 This Week’s Movies Culture 3:33 This Week’s Movies: March 18, 2016 This Week’s Movies Culture 3:07 This Week’s Movies | March 11, 2016 This Week’s Movies Culture 3:03 This Week’s Movies | March 4, 2016 This Week’s Movies Culture 3:15 This Week’s Movies | Feb. 26, 2016 This Week’s Movies Culture 3:19 This Week’s Movies | Feb. 19, 2016 This Week’s Movies Culture 3:11 This Week’s Movies | Feb. 12, 2016 Show more videos from This Week’s Movies Most Popular 1 Opinion Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics 2 U.S. Obama Delivers Howard’s Commencement 3 Fashion & Style Bill Cunningham | Garden Party 4 Science Why It’s Hard to Keep the Pounds Off 5 U.S. How Will Obama Spend His Retirement? 6 World The Killing of Farkhunda 7 Science Parrots: The Highlight Reel 8 Opinion A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race 9 Health In Love and Loss 10 Food How to Cut Up a Whole Chicken © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Politics   In PracticeTracking the Affordable Care Act. View All Posts » When the federal online marketplace for the Affordable Care Act stumbled out of the gate last fall, leaving would-be applicants unable to sign up for care or even to view their plans, three young programmers thought they might be able to help frustrated users. In October, they packaged reams of publicly-available data into a website, healthsherpa.com, that allowed users to immediately view exchange plans in their area. But the site was intended for research only; users still had to purchase them through the federal and state health exchanges or, in some cases, directly through insurers. That changed last week, when the programmers — Michael Wasser, George Kalogeropoulos and Ning Liang — added functionality to their website that allows people to actually sign up for plans on their site, and joined a group of so-called Web brokers who offer a way to enroll in qualified health plans that they say is quicker and simpler than using the federal exchange. “We’re hoping that we’re building an easier place to sign up for health insurance where you get the same exact results as you would on HealthCare.gov,” said Mr. Wasser. Mr. Wasser said the programmers were approached last fall, after they started their website, by Bryan Sivak, the chief technology officer for the Department of Health and Human Services. They made an agreement that would allow healthsherpa.com to integrate with elements of HealthCare.gov and sign individuals up for on-exchange plans, with subsidies. The HealthSherpa team has since added two more employees and raised $1.1 million in seed funding. Their business model is similar to that of an insurance broker, since they will earn commissions from insurance companies when the individuals who use their site to sign up for coverage pay their premiums. Mr. Wasser said it currently took users on the site about an hour to sign up for care. First, users enter their zip code to see a list of available plans in their area, which they can refine according to their age, family size and their preferred level of coverage. After selecting a plan, they are directed to a page on healthcare.gov, where they enter information to determine their eligibility for tax credits and cost-sharing reduction. Users are then directed back to healthsherpa.com to confirm and enroll. “We’re just working to try to find as many ways as we can to shorten the time it takes for people to sign up,” said Mr. Wasser, who said he and his team would eventually like to reduce sign-up time to as little as 10 minutes. So far, according to Mr. Wasser, several hundred people have started the application process on his website, and about 40 had completed the signup process — about a third of whom had applied for subsidies. The Department of Health and Human services has about 30 agreements with Web brokers intended to enable the sites to offer consumers options outside the federal exchange to sign up for health care under the Affordable Care Act. “By strengthening the multiple channels to enroll in quality, affordable coverage through the Marketplace, we are offering Americans more options to purchase new coverage,” said Aaron Albright, a spokesman for the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. But the sites have offered varying levels of functionality, in part because of technical issues in determining users’ eligibility, which is still done through the federal system. “The reason we’re not seeing more web brokers doing this process online right now is because the eligibility system is still being fixed,” said Claire McAndrew, the private health insurance director of FamiliesUSA, a health care consumer advocacy group. GoHealth.com, for example, has been signing up users for exchange plans with subsidies using a call center since November. And last month, GetInsured.com announced the launch of a web-only enrollment process for plans under the Affordable Care Act — something the company had initially planned on offering sooner. As HealthSherpa does, it now directs customers to HealthCare.gov and then back to its own sites during the process. The website eHealth can sign people up for plans, but the company’s C.E.O., Gary Lauer, recently told CNBC it had been unable to process subsidies. The private exchanges say that their tools make it easier for users to see available plans, and that their sign-up process is quicker than the federal exchange. But consumer advocates warn that Web brokers’ presentation of insurance plan information may be influenced by their commission deals with those companies. “For some plans you’ll see the premiums, the benefits, the cost sharing — for other plans you’ll see a name. That can really influence which plan a consumer might pick,” said Ms. McAndrew, who added, “I always recommend that people go to the official marketplace website.”
Science   Allergies Are Everywhere Sign Up for the Running Email. Advertisement People hoping to find an allergy-free haven may be out of luck. A new study has found that no region of the United States is allergy-free, but the kind of allergy people are likely to suffer from varies by region, race and socioeconomic status. Researchers gave blood tests to 8,124 people, 856 of them children under 6, to detect immunoglobulin E antibodies, or IgEs. The presence of an IgE antibody that reacts to a specific substance increases the risk of having an allergy-related illness ike allergic asthma, hay fever or rash. The scientists tested people for antibodies to a range of potential allergens, including cats, dogs, milk, cockroaches, peanuts, grass, ragweed and shrimp. No matter where they lived, about 45 percent of people over 6 had positive tests for at least one allergen, and so did 36 percent of the children 1 to 5 years old. “To me, the biggest surprise is that the level of sensitivities didn’t differ region to region,” said the senior author, Dr. Darryl C. Zeldin, a scientific director at the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences. “This goes completely against what most people would have said. The bottom line is that sensitization patterns differ by region, but overall sensitization rates are high.” Grass and ragweed sensitivities were higher in the West, mold allergy more common in the East. Positive tests for indoor allergens were higher in the East than the West, but there were almost no regional differences for peanut, shrimp, egg, dog, cat, rat and mouse sensitivities. The most common positive tests among the adult group were for dust mites, grass and ragweed, with almost 20 percent of the population showing sensitivity to each. About 12 percent of people over 6 were sensitive to dogs or cats, and among the youngest children, milk and eggs were the most common positive tests. Inhalant allergies like ragweed and grass peaked in the teens and 20s, then decreased later in life. Race and socioeconomic status also made a difference. Non-Hispanic blacks had the highest sensitivity to all tested allergens except Russian thistle and egg. Sensitivity to cockroaches and shrimp were associated with lower economic status, and dog and cat allergies were more common in higher income groups. In large metropolitan areas, 50 percent of the population was sensitized to at least one allergen, but only 40 percent in rural areas. Outdoor allergens like grass and ragweed affected 37.8 percent of the urban population, but less than a quarter of people in nonmetropolitan areas, possibly because respiratory allergies are associated with air pollution. The study, published online in The Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immunology, also found that allergies cluster in groups: people sensitive to dust mites are also likely to be sensitive to grass and tree pollen; sensitivity to peanuts, usually considered a food allergy, tends to cluster with plant allergies; cockroach and shrimp sensitivity are a common pair, probably because they contain a similar allergen, a protein called tropomyosin. Ganesa Wegienka, an epidemiologist at Henry Ford Hospital in Detroit who was not involved in the research, said that the paper provided “a nice snapshot of what’s going on in the U.S.,” and she was especially impressed with the data on clusters of sensitivities. “This has implications for doctors and patients,” she said. “If a child is sensitized to one allergen in a cluster of allergens, maybe the doctor should be looking at other allergens in the cluster to think about treatment plans.” Your health questions answered by Times journalists and experts. Your Questions | All » Get Well's Running email for practical tips, expert advice, exclusive content and a bit of motivation delivered to your inbox every week to help you on your running journey. Coming soon. How much do you know about the amazing things that go on in your gut? Take our quiz to find out about the creepy, crawly critters living in your home. What surface is the most friendly to the flu virus? Where’s the best place to stand when you’re talking to a sick person? How does sleep affect health, relationships and well-being? The “Reading the Mind in the Eyes Test” measures ability to understand others’ emotional states. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   N.C.A.A. Football Drops Rule to Slow Offenses. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content Skip to navigation View mobile version The New York Times College Football|N.C.A.A. Football Drops Rule to Slow Offenses Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go http://nyti.ms/1mXjHGy Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Supported by College Football | Sports Briefing N.C.A.A. Football Drops Rule to Slow Offenses By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 6, 2014 Continue reading the main story Share This Page Continue reading the main story The N.C.A.A. football rules committee dropped for now a proposal to penalize offenses for snapping the ball before 10 seconds have run off the 40-second play clock. The proposal was presented as a move to protect players from injuries by slowing fast-break offenses. A version of this brief appears in print on March 6, 2014, on page B15 of the New York edition with the headline: No Rule to Slow Offenses. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Continue reading the main story What's Next Loading... Go to Home Page » Site Index The New York Times Site Index Navigation News World U.S. Politics N.Y. Business Tech Science Health Sports Education Obituaries Today's Paper Corrections Opinion Today's Opinion Op-Ed Columnists Editorials Contributing Writers Op-Ed Contributors Opinionator Letters Sunday Review Taking Note Room for Debate Public Editor Video: Opinion Arts Today's Arts Art & Design ArtsBeat Books Dance Movies Music N.Y.C. Events Guide Television Theater Video: Arts Living Automobiles Crossword Food Education Fashion & Style Health Jobs Magazine N.Y.C. Events Guide Real Estate T Magazine Travel Weddings & Celebrations Listings & More Classifieds Tools & Services Times Topics Public Editor N.Y.C. Events Guide Blogs Multimedia Photography Video NYT Store Times Journeys Subscribe Manage My Account Subscribe Subscribe Times Insider Home Delivery Digital Subscriptions NYT Opinion Crossword Email Newsletters Alerts Gift Subscriptions Corporate Subscriptions Education Rate Mobile Applications Replica Edition International New York Times Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Travel   Trips from Outside Magazine. Advertisement Outside magazine has long taken readers on armchair trips. Now the monthly, which covers adventure, has linked up with travel outfitter Uncharted Outposts to create a new travel company called Outside Go. “The new brand is really creating one-of-a-kind experiences,” said Outside Go’s president, Sandy Cunningham, mentioning safaris by mountain bike or multisport trips in Turkey and Greece. “If offers the opportunity to inspire people to live a more active life in whatever destination they visit.” Outside Go will offer three kinds of services, including scheduled group trips, independent trips and custom-designed itineraries. Another nine trips will be announced in the next several weeks, but the company has already begun selling a six-day surfing trip to Nicaragua departing March 22 ($2,795 per person, double occupancy). Of 15 independent trips, called Go Anytime, only one is currently available, a six-day, lodge-based trip in Alaska with daily outings by bush plane to visit glaciers, remote rivers and lakes and Pacific shores with options to hike, ice climb, fish or raft depending on the day’s itinerary. The trip, available June 1 through September, starts at $7,995 per person, double occupancy. The outfitter says it can handle all kinds of requests, including tracking pumas in Chile, planning alpine ascents and guiding trout fishing trips on remote North American rivers. So far, Mount Everest is not in the plans. “It’s not about super uber danger for us,” Ms. Cunningham said. “We’re not looking at doing the craziest adventure, but if people want to kite board in Morocco or Nicaragua, we will make it happen.” In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
U.S.   Chris Christie Speaks to Conservatives. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Video Chris Christie Speaks to Conservatives Mar. 6, 2014 | 0:13 The governor of New Jersey addresses the Conservative Political Action Conference in Washington, a year after he was denied a slot at the same event. Show More PlaylistUp Next in Video Next → Op-Docs: Season 5 9:23 I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked   Video1:08 Hitting all the Right Notes Op-Docs: Season 5 13:33 Manufacturing China’s Future Op-Docs: Season 5 6:05 Fashion vs. Art   Video0:56 Excerpt: ‘The Father’   Video0:33 Excerpt: ‘Exit Strategy’ Op-Docs: Season 5 7:19 A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race   Video1:58 Excerpt: ‘Antlia Pneumatica’   News Clips: Europe1:20 Officials React to Panama Papers   News Clips: Europe3:47 Mossack Fonseca on Data Leak © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Business   Havana Highball. Advertisement By David Steinberg Mar 8, 2014 The New York Times Crossword is available through subscription only. SATURDAY’S PUZZLE — I’m going to open today’s discussion with a couple of questions: Why is it so hard to get restaurants in countries that are not the United States to put an ice cube in a drinking glass? Also, how is it that these same countries, with their high standards of education, do not understand the singular concept of “Diet Coke”? I bring this up because today’s puzzle by David “I Don’t Even Have My Driver’s License Yet” Steinberg has the entry COKE ZERO at 12 Down, and in my recent South African and less recent European travels, I noticed two crucial cultural differences that might just erode any chances we have for world peace. I’m positive that this has come up at Camp David at least once. First, other countries apparently like to drink their carbonated beverages lukewarm and ice-free, even if the temperature outside is so hot that one’s underarm areas could legally be declared flood zones. Requests for ice in one’s glass are met with a quizzical, somewhat pitying look that says “Really? You want your beverage cold? And you used to think of yourself as a superpower.” Second, in the United States we have two basic, utilitarian Coca-Colas: Coke and Diet Coke. One has sugar and the other does not. It’s a simple concept, and it works for us. Outside of the United States, however, ordering the right sugar-free beverage becomes a little more complicated. They have Coke (contains sugar), Coke Light (does not contain sugar), COKE ZERO (does not contain sugar), and Another Sugar-Free Coke That Is So Light It Levitates (O.K., I made that one up. But you get the idea.) Does anyone else see the problem here? How are you supposed to know which beverage to order so you can complain that there is no ice in your glass? Of course, I am now back in the United States and, according to the rules of international law, I am entitled to have as much ice as I want in my beverages, which is great, because now my core body temperature has cooled off enough to enjoy Mr. Steinberg’s puzzle [We were wondering when you were going to get to the point. –Ed.] As you’ll read below, Mr. Steinberg’s seed entries were JAILBREAK and CANDY SHOP in the northwest and GOOGLEBOT and SEXY SADIE in the southeast, which, coincidentally, were also my own favorite entries. I also liked JUST DO IT, CLARITIN, the shout out to the much-missed Gilda RADNER, and yes, even COKE ZERO, as long as it is served over ice. Let’s chat with Mr. Steinberg: In September 2012, I noticed that I had a lot of nine-letter seed entries lying around, so I decided to throw some of them together into a high-word-count, themeless grid. I was particularly happy that JAILBREAK and CANDY SHOP fit into the upper left corner and that GOOGLEBOT and SEXY SADIE fit into the lower right. In the other two corners, I especially liked COKE ZERO, CLARITIN, JUST DO IT, and MOJITO. ARIOSI, AIOLIS, and LLDS weren’t (and still aren’t) my favorites, though I was pleased with how the fill turned out overall, so I wrote up the clues and submitted the puzzle to Will. Will liked the puzzle but had concerns about BIG HOAX sounding a bit contrived; luckily, though, he decided to let it stand. When I first saw the edited version of this crossword, I couldn’t tell which one of my puzzles it was, since Will’s brilliant “Cooler idea?” and “One stocking bars” clues completely eluded me! I had clued JAILBREAK in the sense of jailbreaking a phone [To jailbreak a phone means to hack into its operating system to maintain greater control over what you download –D.A.] and CANDY SHOP as the 50 Cent song, so it took me an embarrassingly long time to identify the puzzle, because Will’s clues for these entries were completely different. Enjoy my puzzle, and I look forward to seeing some of you at the A.C.P.T. (perhaps even solving this crossword!) Finally, many thanks for the TaD (Tall and Dapper) Tom Gaffney for holding down the fort. Keep your eyes peeled for updates from the front lines of the American Crossword Puzzle Tournament, and while we wait for the acrostic, here’s SADIE, being SEXY: Your thoughts? Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. David Kahn puts us through the wringer.Read more… Emily Cox and Henry Rathvon offer us a challenging cryptic crossword puzzle.Read more… A place for solvers to discuss and ask questions about the “A Little Variety” suite of puzzles.Read more… Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Food   Melissa Clark. Channels & Shows Home Search Food Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos The author and cook Melissa Clark takes you into her kitchen to show you how easy it can be to make exquisite and delicious meals. Recent Episodes in Melissa Clark Melissa Clark Food 2:58 Chocolate Babka Melissa Clark Food 2:38 Baked Fish and Chips Melissa Clark Food 3:03 Chocolate Pavlova with Chocolate Mousse Melissa Clark Food 2:17 Alfajores Melissa Clark Food 1:42 Golden Leek and Potato Soup Melissa Clark Food 2:28 Chocolate Peppermint Bars Melissa Clark Food 1:60 Cheesy Pasta Bake Melissa Clark Food 3:03 Japanese Chicken and Root Vegetable Stew Melissa Clark Food 2:38 Turkish Burned Milk Pudding Show more videos from Melissa Clark Most Popular 1 Opinion Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics 2 U.S. Obama Delivers Howard’s Commencement 3 Fashion & Style Bill Cunningham | Garden Party 4 Science Why It’s Hard to Keep the Pounds Off 5 U.S. How Will Obama Spend His Retirement? 6 World The Killing of Farkhunda 7 Science Parrots: The Highlight Reel 8 Opinion A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race 9 Health In Love and Loss 10 Food How to Cut Up a Whole Chicken © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Foreign   Building Bridges Between the Military and Universities. Advertisement   The president of Columbia, Lee C. Bollinger, stood beside retired Rear Adm. James Lowe, class of 1951, and Assistant Secretary of the Navy Juan Garcia III in a ceremony that, according to Mr. Bollinger, ofﬁcially “healed the breech” between the university and the military that developed during the Vietnam War and continued until the university senate voted in April 2011 to allow the Naval ROTC program’s return. But only 50 blocks downtown, at the Macaulay Honors College of the City University of New York, an attempt to integrate the military with academia has been met with heated resistance. David Petraeus, the retired general hired as an adjunct instructor last year, faced a small but vitriolic group of students who confronted him in the street on the way to his first class. They called him a “war criminal” and protested his appointment to the university. The group has since organized and gained support from other students and faculty under the name the “Ad Hoc Committee Against the Militarization of CUNY.” The markedly different scenes, which played out late last year, exemplify the tension between American universities and the military, particularly during a time of transition for the armed forces. As the military downsizes and returns to pre-war force levels or below, many of those leaving the service will take advantage of the post-9/11 GI Bill to obtain a university education. At the same time, senior military leaders of the last decade are seeking post-retirement opportunities, with some turning to universities to take positions as lecturers. Historically, the relationship between universities and the military has been complicated, though it wasn’t always so tense. During both World Wars, universities commissioned thousands of new ofﬁcers to serve in all branches of the armed forces. At the forefront of this effort was, perhaps surprisingly, the Ivy League. In World War II, Cornell University commissioned 4,598 ofﬁcers, more than any other institution in the country, including the United States Military Academy at West Point. Each of the other Ivy League schools contributed as well, including hosting the largest Naval training program in the nation (Dartmouth), filling up the most positions in the Ofﬁce of Strategic Services (Yale), or conducting the ﬁrst research on atomic ﬁssion for The Manhattan Project (Columbia). But public opposition to the war in Vietnam brought a wave of anti-military sentiment that never subsided within traditionally liberal universities. Under increased pressure from anti-war activists on college campuses, as well as stricter academic conditions imposed by university administrations, the military terminated 88 ROTC programs across the country in the late 1960s and early 1970s, including in ﬁve of the eight Ivy League schools. By the early 1990s, academia’s disapproval of the “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” policy created a new barrier to military presence at universities until it was repealed in 2011. In effect, for whatever reason they had at a given time, many of the nation’s elite schools closed their doors to the military as a national institution and kept them locked for more than 40 years. In their book, Arms and the University, scholars Donald Downs and Ilia Murtazashvili present rational arguments for why an increased military presence on university campuses beneﬁts both sides, particularly in the form of ROTC programs. But universities since Vietnam have pushed back, and although, the authors write, they “pride themselves on being liberally minded and open to challenging ideas, this pride seems less merited when it comes to the military, even though the military is one of the most important institutions in American society.” The case of CUNY and General Petraeus comes at a time when American society has broad respect for the military, but a limited understanding. Other retired high-proﬁle ofﬁcers have taken positions as university lecturers without incident, including Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal at Yale, Adm. Mike Mullen at Princeton, Adm. Eric T. Olson at Columbia and Gen. James Mattis at Dartmouth. A handful of others are full professors, such as retired colonels Peter Mansoor at Ohio State and Andrew Bacevich at Boston University. The notion that the presence of General Petraeus and other former ofﬁcers is somehow an attempt by “the U.S. government and the CUNY administration to turn the university into an infamous ‘war college,’ ” as the student group’s ofﬁcial statement declared, seems overstated. If anything, exposure to the military through faculty, student veterans and ROTC programs is the best way for universities to play a part in bridging the civilian-military divide. Shutting the military out of these institutions only creates a separate class of citizens who volunteer to serve their country but have limited interaction with the very people they are charged with defending. To their credit, the CUNY administration upheld the university tradition of the “reasoned expression of dissent” despite pressure to do otherwise. The interim chancellor, William P. Kelly, released a statement in support of General Petraeus’s appointment, citing that “foreclosing the right of a faculty member to teach and the opportunity of students to learn is antithetical to that tradition, corrosive of the values at the heart of the academic enterprise. We defend free speech and we reject the disruption of the free exchange of ideas.” Back at Columbia, after the ofﬁcial ROTC ceremony ended, a group of civilians, veterans and service members mingled on the veranda to the background music of a Navy jazz ensemble. A few of the new midshipmen, several of whom are in their ﬁrst semester of college, had to leave the reception early to get to their next class. As they crossed under the bridge near 118th Street and Amsterdam Avenue, a few students walking in the opposite direction stopped to take a longer look at their fellow classmates wearing white Navy dress uniforms. They stared curiously, and then continued walking. Maybe next time they’ll say hello. David Eisler is the program manager for Words After War, a literary nonprofit based in New York City. He is also a graduate student in international affairs at Columbia University. Previously, he served as a captain in the United States Army. At War is a reported blog from Afghanistan, Pakistan, Iraq and other conflicts in the post-9/11 era. The New York Times's award-winning team provides insight — and answers questions — about combatants on the faultlines, and civilians caught in the middle. The New York Times has established an education fund for the children of Sultan Munadi, an Afghan journalist who was slain in Afghanistan in 2009. Learn more about him and how you can contribute here. » Marine Corps Captain Calum Rammhe, a longtime marathon runner, ran seven marathons on seven continents in seven days to raise money for a charity that supports wounded Marines and their families. It also let him reflect on why running is more than a hobby for him. Read more… A physical therapist describes the powerful bonds she formed with the wounded veterans and her fellow physical and occupational therapists at the Walter Reed Army Medical Center. Read more… A former Marine Corps officer argues that good leadership makes all the difference in smoothing the integration of women into combat units. Read more… Hundreds of letters from an Army private named Harold Grove Moss, whose tour of duty spanned Pearl Harbor to the surrender of Japan, have been transcribed and posted online by his daughter. Read more… A Vietnam-era veteran says presidential candidates should not be judged harshly just because they did not serve during that war. Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Health   The Weekly Health Quiz. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content The New York Times Health|The Weekly Health Quiz Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go http://nyti.ms/1cdOcDn Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Health The Weekly Health Quiz In the news: obesity and exercise, H.I.V. and electronic cigarettes. Test your knowledge of this week’s health news. MARCH 6, 2014 I Toby Bilanow/The New York Times Related Multimedia The Weekly Health Quiz FEB. 27, 2014 In the news: male breast cancer, hepatitis C and antifreeze. Test your knowledge of this week’s health news. Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Movies   Movie Review: 'Bethlehem'. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Movies Movie Review: 'Bethlehem' By Robin Lindsay | Mar. 7, 2014 | 0:52 The Times critic Manohla Dargis reviews "Bethlehem." Related: article: Dodging the Bullets of Loyalty, Terror and Death in Mideast Show More PlaylistUp Next in Movies Next → Anatomy of a Scene Culture2:13 Anatomy of a Scene | ‘Midnight Special’ This Week’s Movies Culture3:33 This Week’s Movies: March 18, 2016 Anatomy of a Scene Culture3:51 Anatomy of a Scene | ‘Krisha’ This Week’s Movies Culture3:28 This Week’s Movies | May 6, 2016 This Week’s Movies Culture3:28 This Week’s Movies | April 29, 2016 Anatomy of a Scene Culture2:41 Anatomy | ‘The Man Who Knew Infinity’   Culture3:41 There Is No Escaping Shakespeare This Week’s Movies Culture3:25 This Week’s Movies | April 22, 2016 Anatomy of a Scene Culture2:48 Anatomy of a Scene | ‘The Meddler’ This Week’s Movies Culture3:28 This Week’s Movies | April 15, 2016 © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Science   Geriatricians Question Five Common Treatments. Advertisement It tells you something about American health care that scores of medical societies have joined a major campaign aimed at telling patients and doctors what not to do. That’s not exactly the language the Choosing Wisely initiative uses, admittedly. It has recruited more than 60 groups, representing specialties from dermatology to thoracic surgery, to come up with lists delicately called “Five Things Physicians and Patients Should Question.” “Question” sounds better than “flee,” doesn’t it? And it allows for individual differences in a way that a campaign called “Danger: Unacceptable Side Effects Ahead,” or “Watch Out: Useless Procedures,” might not. Still, Choosing Wisely wants to help us select drugs and tests and procedures that are backed by evidence, that don’t duplicate other treatments, that are “truly necessary” and won’t hurt us. Since 2012, its lists have included hundreds of drugs, tests and practices that fail to meet those standards, with more to come. Point made. We reported the American Geriatrics Society’s first “Five Things” list last year. The society has just published its second list, so I again turned to Dr. Sei Lee, a geriatrician at the University of California, San Francisco, and a member of the panel that developed both lists, to help explain what else older adults should be dodg — um, questioning. (You can see all 10 items here.) Topping this year’s list is a caution against dementia drugs called cholinesterase inhibitors — Aricept is the most widely used — without following up to see whether they’re really helping. Dementia is so feared, and the eventual prognosis so grim, that doctors and patients want to do something, anything, to stop its progress.  But while the drug may produce cognitive improvement that is statistically significant in a clinical trial, “it’s not clear that it’s big enough for a caregiver to even notice, or big enough to make a difference in a patient’s quality of life,” Dr. Lee said. “We’re learning, after more experience with these drugs, that they benefit a minority of patients.” On the other side of the equation, most patients who take them will experience gastrointestinal problems like nausea, cramping and diarrhea that often cause weight loss. So the society urges extensive discussion before doctors prescribe cholinesterase inhibitors and suggests no more than a three-month trial. If there’s no meaningful improvement by then, there won’t be later. “This is not a medication to start and then forget about,” Dr. Lee cautioned. Grouped second on the list are several tests we’ve often written about: mammograms for breast cancer, colon cancer screenings and P.S.A. tests for prostate cancer. Older people who are already frail or coping with several chronic diseases, and have life expectancies of less than 10 years, are not likely to benefit from finding such cancers — but they will face the short-term risks of complications and overtreatment from screening. “It may not make sense to expose them to these harms,” Dr. Lee said. Next to avoid: appetite stimulants in cases of weight loss, including high-calorie supplements like Boost and Ensure, or prescription drugs like megestrol acetate (brand name Megace) or the antidepressant Remeron. “The evidence that they actually improve outcomes is very, very thin,” Dr. Lee said. For the few patients who have trouble swallowing because they have head and neck cancer or esophageal cancer, these drugs or supplements may make sense. But in general, they may add a couple of pounds without improving survival or quality of life, because they don’t address the underlying reasons for weight loss. “Sometimes, families think patients are dying because they’re losing weight,” Dr. Lee said. “I tell them, they’re losing weight because they’re dying of something else.” There’s no evidence that adding calories, increasing fat but not muscle mass, will help them recover. And the drugs have side effects; the hormone-based Megace increases the risk of blood clots, for instance. The geriatrics society’s list also warns doctors not to prescribe new medications without reviewing the drugs that older patients are already taking, since so many can interact in harmful ways. “In a busy practice, it’s hard to look at everything someone is on, every time you prescribe a new drug,” Dr. Lee acknowledged. Older adults can be taking a dozen drugs daily. But at the least, the panel said, doctors should review all medications annually. Finally, the list concludes by cautioning against the use of restraints — tying down hands or legs, using vests or mitts, keeping people in beds with rails or in reclining chairs they can’t climb out of. Federal regulations already largely prohibit restraints in nursing homes, but they’re still widely used in hospitals, especially in intensive care units, where older patients frequently develop delirium. But when agitated patients are in restraints, “they generally get more agitated,” Dr. Lee said. And when forced to remain in bed, “they can lose strength and muscle mass very quickly. Instead of restraints, we should be thinking about keeping them as active as possible.” Family members or “sitters” who can help them walk safely would help, along with tested anti-delirium strategies. You can read fuller explanations of the list in the current issue of The Journal of the American Geriatrics Society. Overall, Dr. Lee said, these aren’t things that should never happen. “They’re things that may be appropriate rarely but are being done frequently,” he said, “things that are commonplace and should be much, much less common.” Paula Span is the author of “When the Time Comes: Families With Aging Parents Share Their Struggles and Solutions.” The blog is ending, but our coverage of caregiving and aging is not. The New Old Age will run as a twice-monthly column by Paula Span on nytimes.com and frequently in Science Times. Read more… At many nursing homes and assisted living places, a resident’s passing may be hardly noted.Read more… Circumstances had changed, and all these documents needed to change, too. Read more… Lifestyle modification prevents Type 2 diabetes even more effectively in the elderly than in middle-aged patients.Read more… Julianne Moore gives a wonderful performance in “Still Alice,” but the film skirts the truth about dementia.Read more… Thanks to the marvels of medical science, our parents are living longer than ever before. Most will spend years dependent on others for the most basic needs. That burden falls to their baby boomer children. The New Old Age blog explored this unprecedented intergenerational challenge. Paula Span will continue to write New Old Age columns twice monthly at nytimes.com/health and the conversation will continue on Twitter (@paula_span) and Facebook. A few medical institutions have opened their doors to patients’ own dogs and cats. Scheduling and medication errors plague patients with Parkinson's. Dementia doesn't respect public stature. Is there life after caregiving, and if so what it is like? Comprehensive reference and special reports about diseases, conditions, tests, injuries and surgeries. Useful information, tools, and links to organizations around the Web. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   Austrian Wins Giant Slalom. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content Skip to navigation View mobile version The New York Times Skiing|Austrian Wins Giant Slalom Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go http://nyti.ms/1hREWVE Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Supported by Skiing | Sports Briefing Austrian Wins Giant Slalom By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 7, 2014 Continue reading the main story Share This Page Continue reading the main story Anna Fenninger of Austria won a World Cup giant slalom race in Are, Sweden, closing the gap on the overall leader, Maria Höfl-Riesch. Fenninger was 0.21 of a second faster than the surprise runner-up, Anémone Marmottan of France. A version of this brief appears in print on March 7, 2014, on page B14 of the New York edition with the headline: Austrian Wins Giant Slalom. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Continue reading the main story What's Next Loading... Go to Home Page » Site Index The New York Times Site Index Navigation News World U.S. Politics N.Y. Business Tech Science Health Sports Education Obituaries Today's Paper Corrections Opinion Today's Opinion Op-Ed Columnists Editorials Contributing Writers Op-Ed Contributors Opinionator Letters Sunday Review Taking Note Room for Debate Public Editor Video: Opinion Arts Today's Arts Art & Design ArtsBeat Books Dance Movies Music N.Y.C. Events Guide Television Theater Video: Arts Living Automobiles Crossword Food Education Fashion & Style Health Jobs Magazine N.Y.C. Events Guide Real Estate T Magazine Travel Weddings & Celebrations Listings & More Classifieds Tools & Services Times Topics Public Editor N.Y.C. Events Guide Blogs Multimedia Photography Video NYT Store Times Journeys Subscribe Manage My Account Subscribe Subscribe Times Insider Home Delivery Digital Subscriptions NYT Opinion Crossword Email Newsletters Alerts Gift Subscriptions Corporate Subscriptions Education Rate Mobile Applications Replica Edition International New York Times Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Travel   A London Hotel Has a Focus on Sustainability. Advertisement According to London’s Draycott Hotel, encouraging guests to just reuse towels doesn’t cut it anymore when it comes to being eco-friendly. Its new “Keen to be Green” initiative is part of an effort to become the most sustainable boutique hotel in the city, including finding creative ways for travelers to reduce their carbon footprint. As part of this program, guests receive a curated map that details a CO2-emissions-free way to explore London, with suggested walking and biking routes as well as ideas for a green day out. The 35-room red brick Edwardian hotel also provides elegant recycling bins; a room service menu with English fare prepared from locally sourced ingredients like Scottish salmon and Welsh honey; and paraben-free toiletries from Penhaligon’s. Over the past four years, the hotel has also gradually replaced fluorescent lights with LED bulbs, and has favored electric over gas in the kitchen. Although it does not provide bike rentals, a Barclays-sponsored bike docking station is close to the hotel. The hotel uses recycled paper and provides ice only upon request in order to eliminate the energy consumed by idle ice machines, the general manager Melissa Stoman said in an interview. Staff members are also encouraged to bike to work whenever possible. The Cavendish was London’s first central hotel to merit the city’s gold “Green Tourism” award, which measures more than 150 indicators of sustainable practices ; the Draycott received the award in January 2013. The hotel does not, however, function on solar-powered energy. “With the gray weather in London, that would be rather difficult,” Ms. Stoman said. Rates start at £190 , about $327, for single occupancy (and include complimentary afternoon tea). A version of this article appears in print on 03/16/2014, on page TR3 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Hotels: A Smaller, Greener Footprint. In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
U.S.   Until the Wells Run Dry. Channels & Shows Home Search U.S. & Politics Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos U.S. & Politics Until the Wells Run Dry By Sean Patrick Farrell | Mar. 7, 2014 | 2:28 Lake of the Woods, a small community north of Los Angeles, is running dry amid a deep California drought. Residents are changing water habits, but many worry about the future. Related: article: In Parched California, Town Taps Run Nearly Dry Show More PlaylistUp Next in U.S. & Politics Next →   U.S. & Politics2:22 Obama Delivers Howard’s Commencement   U.S. & Politics1:27 Obama Introduces New Tax Rules   U.S. & Politics0:28 Suspect Arrested in Maryland Shootings   U.S. & Politics1:01 Shooting at Maryland Mall   U.S. & Politics1:39 Obama on Trump’s Campaign   U.S. & Politics0:50 Trump on the Economy in Coal Country   U.S. & Politics1:08 Clinton Issues a Warning on Trump   U.S. & Politics0:33 Lawmaker's Removal Adds to Brazil's Turmoil   U.S. & Politics1:06 Ban on Selling E-Cigarettes to Minors   Europe0:47 Cameron Maintains View on Trump’s Policy © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Business   A.C.P.T. 2014: After Puzzle 6. Advertisement SPECIAL POST — At the end of the sixth puzzle, Howard Barkin has risen in the standings to a strong third place. He displaces Anne Erdmann, who fell in the rankings after the infamous Puzzle 5, and Mr. Barkin now defends his third place against Joon Pahk, who needs to recover two minutes in order to beat him. Four-time champ Dan Feyer still leads the pack, followed by Tyler Hinman. Tomorrow, with one hour less of sleep due to the end of Daylight Savings Time, all participants complete Puzzle 7 and then it’s on to the finals and the big boards. Who will be the nine finalists in Divisions A, B and C? Will Tyler Hinman take back the trophy? Will Dan Feyer go home with the glory once again? Stay tuned for more news from the American Crossword Puzzle Tournament, and if you’d like to follow the rankings as they come out, click here. Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. David Kahn puts us through the wringer.Read more… Emily Cox and Henry Rathvon offer us a challenging cryptic crossword puzzle.Read more… A place for solvers to discuss and ask questions about the “A Little Variety” suite of puzzles.Read more… Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   U.N. Body Criticizes Egyptian Crackdown on Dissent. Advertisement Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 7, 2014 A group of 27 countries on the United Nations Human Rights Council expressed concerns on Friday over the Egyptian government’s wide-scale use of violence against opposition protesters, the first reprimand from the international body since a bloody crackdown on dissent in the country began last year. In the declaration, the 27 countries, including Britain, France, Turkey and the United States, called on the Egyptian government to be held accountable for its actions. “We express concern about the restrictions on the rights to peaceful assembly, expression and association, and about the disproportionate use of lethal force by security forces against demonstrators which resulted in large numbers of deaths and injuries,” the declaration said. A version of this brief appears in print on March 8, 2014, on page A5 of the New York edition with the headline: Egypt: U.N. Body Criticizes Crackdown on Dissent. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Sports   Hall of Fame Finalists. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content Skip to navigation View mobile version The New York Times Sports|Hall of Fame Finalists Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go http://nyti.ms/1nqwTAP Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Supported by Sports | Sports Briefing | Horse Racing Hall of Fame Finalists By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 8, 2014 Continue reading the main story Share This Page Continue reading the main story The jockey Garrett Gomez and the trainer Steve Asmussen, along with the two-time horse of the year Curlin, are among 10 finalists named to the National Museum of Racing’s Hall of Fame ballot. Chris Antley, Craig Perret and Alex Solis are the other jockeys chosen as finalists. The trainer Gary Jones and the thoroughbreds Ashado, Kona Gold and Xtra Heat are also on the ballot. A version of this brief appears in print on March 8, 2014, on page D4 of the New York edition with the headline: Hall of Fame Finalists. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Continue reading the main story What's Next Loading... Go to Home Page » Site Index The New York Times Site Index Navigation News World U.S. Politics N.Y. Business Tech Science Health Sports Education Obituaries Today's Paper Corrections Opinion Today's Opinion Op-Ed Columnists Editorials Contributing Writers Op-Ed Contributors Opinionator Letters Sunday Review Taking Note Room for Debate Public Editor Video: Opinion Arts Today's Arts Art & Design ArtsBeat Books Dance Movies Music N.Y.C. Events Guide Television Theater Video: Arts Living Automobiles Crossword Food Education Fashion & Style Health Jobs Magazine N.Y.C. Events Guide Real Estate T Magazine Travel Weddings & Celebrations Listings & More Classifieds Tools & Services Times Topics Public Editor N.Y.C. Events Guide Blogs Multimedia Photography Video NYT Store Times Journeys Subscribe Manage My Account Subscribe Subscribe Times Insider Home Delivery Digital Subscriptions NYT Opinion Crossword Email Newsletters Alerts Gift Subscriptions Corporate Subscriptions Education Rate Mobile Applications Replica Edition International New York Times Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Travel   A Finger Lakes Women’s History Focus. Advertisement It’s the wineries of New York’s Finger Lakes that usually get the most attention from tourists, but a trail of restored homes, parks and museums may have visitors picking up a bit of women’s history with their cabernet franc. At the heart of the trail — and the early women’s reform movement — is Seneca Falls, N.Y., and the 19th-century home of Elizabeth Cady Stanton, who organized the first women’s rights convention at the Wesleyan Chapel there in 1848. The chapel, Stanton’s house and other notable landmarks there and in nearby Waterloo now make up a Women’s Rights National Historical Park, which offers self-guided and ranger-led tours through the area. In March, Women’s History Month, the park’s programming is abundant with lectures, films and other events focused on how both 19th-century and modern-day activists have worked to achieve equality. In Rochester, N.Y., the trail leads to the former home of Susan B. Anthony, which served as a base for the National American Woman Suffrage Association, of which she was a president. A series of expansions and restorations has resulted in an ever-growing museum and research center. In Auburn, the Harriet Tubman Home is a stop that would surely have been approved by the foremothers, considering that most were also active abolitionists. This month, the Seward House Historic Museum down the street, home of Tubman’s friends and allies William and Frances Seward, will host a series of special programs. The National Park Service plans to introduce an official “Votes for Women History Trail” in early 2015. A version of this article appears in print on 03/09/2014, on page TR3 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Trending: A Finger Lakes Women’s History Focus. In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
U.S.   The Men of Atalissa. Channels & Shows Home Search Times Documentaries Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Times Documentaries The Men of Atalissa By Kassie Bracken and John Woo | Mar. 8, 2014 | 35:16 For decades, a group of men with intellectual disabilities seemed happy living in a small Iowa town. Then their neighbors found out the truth. Related: The ‘Boys’ in the Bunkhouse This film is being shown in collaboration with POV Show More PlaylistUp Next in Times Documentaries ← PreviousNext →   Times Documentaries17:46 On Tribal Lands, Oil and Trouble   Times Documentaries11:38 Jade’s Journey Marked by Drugs and Death   Times Documentaries16:25 Strangers at Sea   Times Documentaries13:14 Chemical Secrets of the Iraq War   Times Documentaries10:17 Love and Independence in East Providence   Times Documentaries13:29 Native Fantasy: Germany’s Indian Heroes   Times Documentaries11:32 Good Night, Margaret   Times Documentaries26:55 Breakdown: Death at the Track   Times Documentaries36:19 Punched Out: The Death of Derek Boogaard   Times Documentaries13:51 India at a Crossroads   Now Playing Times Documentaries35:16 The Men of Atalissa   Times Documentaries11:51 The Cancer Divide: Mary   Times Documentaries23:58 The Trials of Jacob Mach   Times Documentaries5:18 The Cancer Divide: Tzippy   Times Documentaries18:54 A Year of Recovery After Hurricane Sandy   Times Documentaries7:41 The Cancer Divide: Jessy   Times Documentaries11:06 The Making of Malala   Times Documentaries30:29 Hers to Lose   Times Documentaries11:09 After the Delhi Gang Rape   Times Documentaries17:45 Hannah's Story   Times Documentaries32:51 Class Dismissed: Malala’s Story © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Business   China’s Tencent to Buy Stake in JD.com as Part of E-Commerce Push. Advertisement   Today, one of the biggest rivalries in the tech world is playing out in China, where Alibaba and Tencent are locked in a battle for dominance in the world’s biggest market of Internet users. Alibaba, founded by the billionaire Jack Ma, is an e-commerce behemoth: the equivalent of Amazon and eBay rolled into one. Tencent, founded by the billionaire Pony Ma (no relation to Jack) is China’s champion of social messaging and online games, a dynamo of the mobile world. Lately, each company has been eyeing the other’s turf, relying on a strategy that boils down to buying into your competitor’s competitor. The latest example of this came on Monday, when Tencent, whose own e-commerce business is an also-ran in China, announced a deal to pay $215 million for a 15 percent stake in JD.com, the country’s No. 2 e-commerce company, behind Alibaba. Tencent’s latest encroachment into Alibaba’s business calls for it to buy an additional 5 percent stake in JD.com after JD.Com’s planned $1.5 billion listing on the Nasdaq is completed, and for the two companies to cooperate in China’s fast-growing e-commerce business. For Tencent and Alibaba, ‘‘the trenches are being dug in across the various parts of the territories that they occupy,’’ said Duncan Clark, the chairman of BDA, an investment advisory firm based in Beijing that is focused on the digital and consumer sectors. ‘‘Obviously, a weak point for Tencent versus Alibaba has been e-commerce,’’ he said. ‘‘And similarly, mobile for Alibaba is an area they are trying to address versus Tencent. The battle lines are becoming increasingly well- defined.’’ Alibaba, for its part, is expected to seek a listing this year in a deal that would be many times as large as JD.com’s. Analysts expect it to eclipse Facebook’s $16 billion initial public offering in 2012. JD.com, formerly known as 360buy.com, is a distant second in the Chinese e-commerce market to Alibaba’s shopping sites, Taobao.com and Tmall.com. By joining forces, Tencent and JD.com are seeking to challenge Alibaba, which handles the bulk of online purchases made by China’s rising consumer class. JD.com, whose I.P.O. is expected to be one of the biggest Chinese listings of the year in the United States, will seek to increase its sales by tapping into Tencent’s strong position in social networking. Tencent, with a market value of about $150 billion, operates Weixin, or WeChat, a popular messaging service similar to WhatsApp that has more than 200 million active monthly users. Analysts said that while Alibaba is the clear leader in e-commerce in China, there are areas in which JD.com has proved to be a tough competitor, particularly in sales of large appliances and consumer electronics. As part of the cooperation, JD.com will absorb several of Tencent’s unprofitable e-commerce businesses. E-commerce accounted for about 15 percent of Tencent’s 14.4 billion renminbi, or $2.3 billion, in revenue in the third quarter of last year, the most recent data available. In an announcement to the Hong Kong stock exchange, Tencent said the tie-up with JD.com would help to ‘‘extend the company’s presence in the fast- growing physical goods e-commerce market and to achieve economies of scale.’’ Under the terms of the deal, Tencent’s president, Martin Lau, will get a seat on JD.com’s board of directors, and Tencent is restricted from selling its stake for three years. The partnership, which will also include the online payment business, is for an initial term of five years. Alibaba, for its part, has been branching into Tencent’s core business of social media. It struck a $586 million deal last April for an 18 percent stake in Weibo, the Sina Corporation’s popular microblog service. Alibaba has also been reinforcing its strengths in e-commerce, agreeing in December to invest about $360 million in the Haier Group, one of China’s biggest manufacturers and distributors of household appliances, and to form a joint-venture logistics business with Haier. JD.com also has a substantial logistics network in China. The online retailer has 36 million active customer accounts and operates 82 warehouses in 34 cities, according to a filing to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, and analysts say it stacks up well against its competitors in terms of the speed with which it processes orders and makes deliveries. JD.com’s earlier backers include the American hedge fund Tiger Global Management; the Russian billionaire Yuri Milner’s DST Global; Sequoia Capital, a California venture capital firm; and the Saudi investor Prince Alwaleed bin Talal. Bank of America Merrill Lynch and China Renaissance acted as financial advisers to JD.com on the deal, while Tencent was advised by Barclays. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   China Warns of Risks in Plan to Retire Windows XP. Advertisement Microsoft’s plans to retire its Windows XP operating system have raised concerns in China, which has been slow to upgrade its computers. Microsoft says it will no longer be offering technical support or security patches for Windows XP after April 8, and it is encouraging users to upgrade to newer operating systems, such as Windows 8. Although the percentage of computers running Windows XP in China is declining ahead of Microsoft’s deadline, it’s still quite high. As of January, 49 percent of Chinese computers were using the 12-year-old operating system, according to StatCounter, an analysis firm. That compares with less than 18 percent worldwide and less than 11 percent in the United States.  Experts say the pervasiveness of software piracy in China, though it has tapered off in recent years, means that computer users are unenthusiastic about shelling out for upgrades. In China, the official retail price for Windows 8 is 988 renminbi, or about $160, for the basic version and 1,988 renminbi, or about $325, for the professional version, though discounted prices are widely available. China’s efforts nearly a decade ago to promote the use of legitimate software were a boon to the fortunes of Microsoft, which had struggled with widespread copying of its products. The government took steps to ensure that its own computers were not using pirated software and introduced rules that new machines had to have pre-installed, licensed operating systems. Beijing argues that Microsoft’s push to wean users off Windows XP and onto newer operating systems could harm its antipiracy efforts. In December, Yan Xiaohong, the deputy director of the National Copyright Administration, told a representative of BSA: The Software Alliance, an industry trade group, that Microsoft’s decision to end support for Windows XP meant that Chinese consumers were facing grave security risks and that efforts to reduce software piracy would be undermined, because users would balk at the cost of upgrading their operating systems, according to a report in Legal Daily, a newspaper run by the Chinese Ministry of Justice. But those costs are part of the reason why Microsoft is unlikely to back down on its plan to phase out Windows XP. Erwin Visser, senior director within Microsoft’s Windows division, said last year that moving users off Windows XP was a $32 billion service opportunity for its commercial partners, ZDNet reported. The pressure for Chinese users to upgrade their systems has also revived longstanding concerns within China about United States government agencies using hidden security flaws in software developed by American companies for surveillance purposes. Ni Guangnan, a computer scientist at the Chinese Academy of Sciences, said that Windows 8 would leave users open to security threats and urged Chinese government agencies and important industries not to adopt it because of the risk of American intrusions, according to Global Times, a newspaper run by the Communist Party-owned People’s Daily Group. Microsoft allows China and other countries to examine its source code and offer their own substitutions to ease concerns about vulnerabilities. Chinese technology firms say they plan to help users with some of the difficulties they will face with the changeover. Tencent, Kingsoft, Sogou and others will provide technical assistance with security problems and operating system upgrades, services they expect could be needed for the next two or three years, the state news agency Xinhua reported. “The upcoming shutdown will seriously affect Chinese users,” Ding Ke, a senior manager of Tencent, a major Chinese Internet portal, told Xinhua. Sinosphere, the China blog of The New York Times, delivers intimate, authoritative coverage of the planet's most populous nation and its relationship with the rest of the world. Drawing on timely, engaging dispatches from The Times’ distinguished team of China correspondents, this blog brings readers into the debates and discussions taking place inside a fast-changing country and details the cultural, economic and political developments shaping the lives of 1.3 billion people. Some called on the government to send troops to the Middle East in retaliation to an Islamic State killing, while others cautioned that such a move could invite terrorism at home.Read more… The dissidents had won official recognition as refugees and had been previously detained in China for their activism, Chris Buckley reports.Read more… Human rights advocates listened with a mixture of incredulity and derision to the delegation’s responses on interrogation, Nick Cumming-Bruce reports. Read more… In the Philippines for an Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit, President Obama urged China to halt military activities on the disputed islands, Michael D. Shear reports. Read more… The dead, including women and children, were said to have been involved in a knife attack in September that left 50 people dead at a mine near the Kyrgyzstan border, Javier C. Hernández reports. Read more… Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Health   You Talking to Me?. Channels & Shows Home Search Science Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Science You Talking to Me? By Nick Wingfield | Mar. 9, 2014 | 0:47 Dropcam is like a nanny cam for your dog. With it, it’s easy to communicate with your pet remotely — but obedience is not included. Related: blogpost: Every Dog Has Its Data Show More PlaylistUp Next in Science Next →   Science0:15 Spinning Ice Circle in Russia   Health3:01 Why It’s Hard to Keep the Pounds Off   U.S.0:34 Time-Lapse of Northern Lights in Alaska   Science0:27 Panoramic Image of Mars Landscape   Science0:49 The Scorpions Are Out Early This Year ScienceTake Science1:30 ScienceTake | Shake a Tail Feather   Europe1:18 Remembering Chernobyl   Science0:35 Gorillas in Danger of Extinction   Science1:36 Parrots: The Highlight Reel ScienceTake Science1:38 Debunking the Viper’s Strike © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Science   Every Dog Has Its Data Sign Up for the Running Email. Advertisement Dropcam is like a nanny cam for your dog. With it, it’s easy to communicate with your pet remotely — but obedience is not included. Personal technology for health and fitness. A half-century ago, dogs lived in barns or backyards, domiciled in shabby little doghouses. Now they have the run of our houses and apartments. They sleep in our beds (full disclosure). In some cases, they are considered by their owners to be like children, and possibly a bit cleaner. So it is not so strange that the connected technologies that are creeping into the lives of humans are doing the same for pets. Wearable pet activity trackers keep tabs on Bella’s or Bear’s exercise. Some go further, monitoring dogs’ heart and respiratory rates and tracking locations in case they escape their homes. Webcams allow people who are away from home to monitor, communicate and play games with their pets, breaking up the monotony of lonely days. What’s making all these devices possible is an abundance of increasingly inexpensive miniature components created for the smartphone business: wireless chips, motion sensors and high-resolution camera lenses that can be jammed into pet-friendly devices. Smartphone apps, meanwhile, are giving people a way to visualize the biometric data these devices collect and to snoop on pet behavior from anywhere with a wireless connection. These device manufacturers are chasing the growing pile of money people are lavishing on animals. Total annual spending on pets in this country, including food, veterinary care and medicine, more than tripled over the past two decades to $55.5 billion last year, according to the American Pet Products Association. The tighter bond between household animals and the people formerly known as owners has established pet wellness as a serious business, and tech firms are taking note. “It is the idea of being able to interact with your pet in a more meaningful way,” said Con Slobodchikoff, an emeritus professor of biology at Northern Arizona University. “Right now, pretty much all people have is voice to interact with their pets or touch. People want more.” Heidi Hurn recently clipped one of these gadgets, the Whistle Activity Monitor, to the collar of Hoosier, her 11-year-old chocolate Labrador retriever. This $130 brushed metal device, about the dimensions of a ketchup bottle cap, records when he is active, for how long and at what intensity level.  It is the canine equivalent of the Jawbone UP, a fitness tracker that Ms. Hurn bought for her fiancé. Through an app on her iPhone, Ms. Hurn, 32, who works in medical device sales in Seattle, can see a bar chart showing how hard and for how long her dog walker is exercising Hoosier. She can see how active he is when she and her fiancé are not at home. (Revealed: Hoosier is sacked out from five minutes after they leave until the moment they get home.) Ms. Hurn said she and her fiancé got the device because Hoosier’s veterinarian emphasized that keeping him active is likely to extend his life. She said the detailed logs of his exercise make the couple feel more responsible. “We are very attentive parents,” she said. “He’s our only child.” I, too, recently put a Whistle on the collar of Mitzi, my 5-year-old pit bull/Labrador retriever mix. After a few days, I was able to compare her activity level to other mixed-breed dogs. I felt small glow of pride when the Whistle app sent me a congratulatory text after Mitzi surpassed her daily exercise goal four days in a row. More wearable tech for pets is on the way.  Already on sale is a collar device called Tagg that combines activity monitoring with location tracking to help recover lost pets. Voyce, an activity tracker available later this year, also monitors a dog’s heart and respiratory rates. “We really see ourselves as the wellness coach for the life of the dog,” said Jeff Noce, president of i4C Innovations, the maker of Voyce. It’s possible the data from these devices could eventually help medical researchers better understand pet ailments. According to a 2012 study commissioned by the Association for Pet Obesity Prevention, more than 52 percent of dogs and more than 58 percent of cats are overweight or obese, conditions which can lead to diabetes and worsen arthritis. A 14-year study commissioned by Purina, the pet food company, found that a dog’s median life span can be extended by 15 percent by restricting the diet to maintain ideal weight, or almost two years for the Labrador retrievers in the survey. Veterinarians have used expensive motion sensors for years to study pet activity levels, but they say the new devices aimed at pet owners have the potential to be used far more broadly. “I’m very excited about the activity monitors,” said Dr. Ernie Ward, a veterinarian and founder of the Association for Pet Obesity Prevention. The solitude of pets is another concern that technology is tackling. Many animals spend hours alone at home while their owners are at the office. Separation anxiety, lack of exercise and other factors can lead to destructive tendencies. Dropcam is a wireless security camera that can also be used as a pet monitor. It has a microphone and speaker so people can both speak to and hear their pets via a mobile app.  I used a Dropcam to spy on Mitzi, who had positioned herself on a couch in my living room while I was out of the house. Through the speaker, I ordered her down. She cocked her head like the RCA dog and stared at the camera — and didn’t move. I’m hoping for an update of the product that includes pet obedience. A device called Petcube, coming out in May, combines a webcam, microphone and speakers with a low-intensity laser pointer, the direction of which can be controlled remotely through a smartphone. Owners will be able to play games with their cats and dogs using the laser, assuming the animals are receptive to the idea of chasing a bright red light around a room. People will be able to invite Facebook friends to play with their pets, too, by sharing access to their Petcubes. While cats seem to pursue lasers without problems, Dr. Margaret Gruen, a veterinary behaviorist at North Carolina State University, said using a laser pointer with dogs could lead them to become shadow and light chasers, a compulsive behavior. Dr. Gruen said it was unclear what effect owners talking to their pets through a webcam could have. “When they can’t see them, will that be confusing or comforting?” she said. “I don’t think we know yet.” There are effective medications and behavior changes for treating separation anxiety in pets, and playing classical music while an owner is gone can relax dogs, too, Dr. Gruen said. While it isn’t clear yet whether these new technologies actually improve the lives of pets, they are certainly likely to answer the emotional needs of many pet parents. Remember the Baby Einstein DVDs, said to enhance the intellectual development of infants? “There’s this industry that springs up around selling highly specialized products that will allow you to feel like you’re doing a better job of parenting,” said Aaron Easterly, the chief executive of the dog-sitting website Rover.com. “It’s really the exact same pitch for these products.” A version of this article appears in print on 03/11/2014, on page D6 of the NewYork edition with the headline: With Technology, Every Dog Has Its Data. Your health questions answered by Times journalists and experts. Your Questions | All » Get Well's Running email for practical tips, expert advice, exclusive content and a bit of motivation delivered to your inbox every week to help you on your running journey. Coming soon. How much do you know about the amazing things that go on in your gut? Take our quiz to find out about the creepy, crawly critters living in your home. What surface is the most friendly to the flu virus? Where’s the best place to stand when you’re talking to a sick person? How does sleep affect health, relationships and well-being? The “Reading the Mind in the Eyes Test” measures ability to understand others’ emotional states. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Society   Finally Arriving at Romance. Advertisement Advertisement By VINCENT M. MALLOZZIMARCH 9, 2014 Dr. Diana Cristina Montoya-Fontalvo, a daughter of Miryam I. Fontalvo-Montoya and Luis F. Montoya of Gainesville, Fla., was married there Saturday evening to Dr. Brendan Alexander Williams, the son of R. Kay Tolle and Wendell S. Williams of Silver Spring, Md. Dr. Daphna Yasova Barbeau, a Florida notary, officiated, with the Rev. Alberto Esposito, a Roman Catholic priest, taking part in the ceremony, at the home of the bride’s parents. The couple met at Columbia, from which they each received a medical degree. They are now second-year residents with theUniversity of Florida Health Shands Hospital in Gainesville, the bride in pediatrics, the groom in orthopedic surgery. The bride, 28, graduated magna cum laude from Harvard. Her parents retired as owners of Lightronix Research Laboratories, an electrical engineering consultancy in Gainesville. Her father was an electrical engineer, her mother a metallurgical engineer. The groom, 30, graduated from Princeton University. His mother is a social worker at the Ivymount School in Rockville, Md., which offers school- and community-based services for children and young adults with special needs. His father is a psychologist for the Department of Defense in Washington. Dr. Montoya-Fontalvo and Dr. Williams began their friendship as study partners at Columbia in August 2007, helping each other through the rigors of medical school by listening to music and taking frequent television breaks together. Advertisement “From our early interactions at school orientations, there was an instant connection,” Dr. Williams said. “We both loved to dance and we also found that we shared an interest for working with children.” Dr. Montoya-Fontalvo and Dr. Williams soon found themselves spending their free time together, going to Central Park, restaurants and nightclubs. They were falling in love, but the timing wasn’t right. “I was already in a relationship that was slowly dying,” Dr. Montoya-Fontalvo said. “Brendan kind of patiently waited until I was firmly single before he made a play for me.” During their first and second years of medical school, they traveled together to Ecuador as volunteers for the Child Family Health International program. Dr. Williams spent four weeks at various hospitals in Quito observing surgeries while Dr. Montoya-Fontalvo spent four weeks in Puyo learning about indigenous medicines and visiting rural clinics along the Amazon border. Before returning home, they spent leisure time in the Galápagos Islands, where the timing was right to begin falling in love. “He is this unique combination of a free spirit who is driven and motivated, just like me,” Dr. Montoya-Fontalvo said of Dr. Williams. “He’s the kind of person who enjoys dancing on a beach and yet puts in enough hours to one day become a successful surgeon. I admire that.” VINCENT M. MALLOZZI A version of this article appears in print on March 9, 2014, on page ST18 of the New York edition with the headline: Finally Arriving at Romance. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Sports   Intrigue Over Jackson Continues to Percolate. Advertisement Advertisement By SCOTT CACCIOLAMARCH 9, 2014 As far back as 15 years ago, the Knicks looked to Phil Jackson to help rescue them. Now, after all these years of yearning, it seems possible that he will rejoin the team, with whom he was a championship player more than 40 years ago. James L. Dolan, the Knicks’ owner, recently met with Jackson while on the West Coast, according to a person in the N.B.A. with knowledge of the situation. There has been increasing speculation that Jackson, 68, might agree to take a leadership role in the Knicks’ front office, although he has never had that sort of role in his distinguished N.B.A. career. A return to the Knicks by Jackson would be a public-relations boon for a franchise that is in dire straits and fearful that its best player, Carmelo Anthony, will go elsewhere when he can opt out of his contract at the end of the season. The presence of Jackson could persuade Anthony to stay — assuming Jackson agreed that Anthony should remain the Knicks’ centerpiece in coming seasons. Todd Musburger, Jackson’s agent, did not return a message seeking comment. A Knicks spokesman declined to comment. If Jackson were to take a front-office position with the Knicks, it is unclear how that might affect Steve Mills, who in his first year as the team’s general manager has made very few personnel moves, even as the Knicks have continued their plunge from a 54-28 record last season. Advertisement Even with a 107-97 victory over Cleveland on Saturday night, the Knicks are an almost unthinkable 24-40. Yet they still have an outside chance of claiming a playoff spot in a weak Eastern Conference. While winning a record 11 championships as a coach, with the Chicago Bulls and the Los Angeles Lakers, Jackson established a reputation as a person who speaks freely. That runs counter to the way the Knicks have typically operated under Dolan, who has restrictive policies when it comes to his employees’ interactions with the news media. However, when Donnie Walsh, an esteemed, longtime N.B.A. executive, ran the Knicks’ front office, from 2008 to 2011, he insisted on operating without those sort of restrictions, and Jackson might choose to do the same. Jackson has not coached since he left the Lakers after the 2010-11 season. They are now in the midst of a season as tumultuous as the Knicks’, which has raised questions about the future of Lakers Coach Mike D’Antoni. But for now, the speculation is focused not on a Jackson reunion with the Lakers, but with the Knicks, who have not won a title since Jackson wore the team’s uniform. A version of this article appears in print on March 9, 2014, on page SP11 of the New York edition with the headline: Intrigue Over Jackson Continues to Percolate. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Technology   ‘Titanfall’ Demo. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Video ‘Titanfall’ Demo Mar. 9, 2014 | 5:07 “Titanfall,” a science-fiction shooter for Xbox from Respawn Entertainment and Electronic Arts, is meant to be played online with other players, and features giant robotic suits known as titans. Related: article: Microsoft Pins Xbox One Hopes on Titanfall, a Sci-Fi Shooting Game Show More PlaylistUp Next in Video Next → Op-Docs: Season 5 9:23 I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked   Video1:08 Hitting all the Right Notes Op-Docs: Season 5 13:33 Manufacturing China’s Future Op-Docs: Season 5 6:05 Fashion vs. Art   Video0:56 Excerpt: ‘The Father’   Video0:33 Excerpt: ‘Exit Strategy’ Op-Docs: Season 5 7:19 A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race   Video1:58 Excerpt: ‘Antlia Pneumatica’   News Clips: Europe1:20 Officials React to Panama Papers   News Clips: Europe3:47 Mossack Fonseca on Data Leak © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Travel   George Takei Reflects on Travel, Both Painful and Pleasurable. Advertisement Advertisement By RACHEL LEE HARRISMARCH 7, 2014 George Takei is a man of many speaking engagements. He talks at “Star Trek” conventions about his role as Mr. Sulu. He tells soldiers and students about the role of Japanese-Americans during World War II, a subject in which he is well versed. In a new musical, “Allegiance,” based on his family’s experience living in internment camps during the war, he actually sings the story. With one million Twitter followers, he is also a major Internet presence, which leads to more talking — on news shows, usually about his political activism. And in January, he was chatting up crowds at the Sundance Film Festival, promoting a new documentary about his life, “To Be Takei: A Star’s Trek for Life, Liberty and Love.” (Mr. Takei and his husband, Brad Takei, have homes in Los Angeles, Arizona and New York City.) In May, Mr. Takei, 76, will do a speaking tour at universities in Japan and Korea, organized by the State Department, to talk about his life and career as an openly gay Asian-American. Below are edited excerpts from a conversation with Mr. Takei. Q. Why were you speaking at military bases in Bavaria a few years back? A. May is Asian-Pacific American Heritage Month, and about five years ago the military decided they needed to know more about the Asian-American contribution to our military. I spoke at every American base in southern Bavaria and described some of the battles. I talked about the absolutely amazing heroism of the Japanese-Americans during World War II, young men who came from behind barbed-wired internment camps, who were labeled enemy non-aliens. They even took the word “citizen” from us. And yet, a year later, when they opened up service to us, thousands went to fight in Europe, in a segregated unit. When they came back, they were welcomed back on the White House lawn. Advertisement Where was your family interned during World War II? I will never forget that scary day. My parents were packing, and I saw two soldiers with bayonets march up to our front door, and we were marched out simply because of our ancestry. We were taken to a swamp in Arkansas and later to California. Do you travel there?  I’ve gone back many times to Arkansas. First in 2004, to verify my childhood memories: the lush forest, the pools of water. As we drove down, it was miles and miles of cotton fields, and I didn’t recognize any of it. Our guide told us the swamp was drained and the forest was chopped down. There was no evidence of the camp having been there, except for the cemetery, which had been maintained by a Japanese-American family that remained there. The most prominent marker was a crumbling concrete pylon with an eagle on the top listing the names of the men who went from that camp to perish on the bloody battlefields. It was wrenching. I owe the America I enjoy today to those incredible, crazy young men. But let me put in a good word for Little Rock, Ark. We are great fans of the Clintons and contributed to the Clinton Library there. My autobiography, where I talk about my childhood in the camp in Arkansas, is in that library. Where do you travel for pleasure?  I’m an Anglophile, so usually London for theater. And Japan. I’m fascinated with Japanese history and its relationship to the United States. What are your favorite places in Japan?  We just love Nagoya, Kyoto, Nara, Hiroshima and, a short ferry ride from Hiroshima, the sacred island called Miyajima, or the “shrine island,” where the lovely Itsukushima Shrine looks like it’s floating in the bay. There is no hospital there because no one should be born or die on that island. We love to stay at ryokans, Japanese inns. These are all ancient inns — as a matter of fact, there is a separate residence for the emperor at one in Miyajima, called Iwaso, on the side of a ravine. You go off and tour around and when you come back, they give you a cotton kimono and suggest you have a good soak in the mineral bath. By the time you come up, your room has been transformed into a dining room with a low jet-black lacquer table set with kaiseki, a tasting menu with a dozen different dishes. Then you go down the path to visit the temple in moonlight. When you come back, your room is transformed again into a bedroom. There is an inn in Nara, Kikusuiryo-ryo, which translates into English as “chrysanthemum water inn.” There is a great big beautiful Japanese garden there you can stroll through. Incongruously, in your room is a huge 60 or 70-inch Sony television. They have private mineral spring baths as well as a huge bath for everyone. You don’t seem to hold a grudge. Will you visit Arizona soon?  If the governor had not vetoed that bill, it would have been a very serious situation. What’s surprising is that Arizona’s Legislature is dominated by religious extremists that don’t really represent the people of Arizona. They embarrass the state, put a stain on the state’s reputation and do economic damage. They won’t be allowed to do that to such a beautiful state anymore. After your work with “Star Trek,” are you interested in space travel? Isn’t this an exciting new phase? I’m particularly impressed with Elon Musk, the founder of Tesla. He is such a visionary. And now free enterprise instead of government is going into space travel, and he’s going to provide the kind of shuttle service NASA used to, through SpaceX. Richard Branson is working on space tourism, which is also very exciting. So, yes, I do want to be in line for that kind of trip. An answer on March 9 in the Q&A column, about the actor George Takei, misidentified one of the camps in which he and his family were interned during World War II. They were indeed interned in Arkansas, but later were taken to California, not Wyoming. A version of this article appears in print on March 9, 2014, on page TR3 of the New York edition with the headline: George Takei on Visiting Places of Past Stress and of Great Pleasure. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
U.S.   Retro Report. Channels & Shows Home Search U.S. & Politics Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos In bold documentary style, Retro Report looks back at the major stories that shaped the world using fresh interviews, analysis and compelling archival footage. Produced by Retro Report for The New York Times. Recent Episodes in Retro Report Retro Report U.S. & Politics 12:56 A Change of Heart Retro Report U.S. & Politics 11:41 The Terminator and the Washing Machine Retro Report U.S. & Politics 11:31 After Bush v. Gore Retro Report U.S. & Politics 2:02 When Dreams Fly Retro Report U.S. & Politics 8:29 Runaway Plane Retro Report U.S. & Politics 2:03 Is it All in Your Gut? Retro Report U.S. & Politics 1:39 The Unexpected Science of Exercise Retro Report U.S. & Politics 2:03 The Bliss Point Retro Report U.S. & Politics 12:30 A Decades-Long Search for a Perfect Diet Show more videos from Retro Report Most Popular 1 Opinion Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics 2 U.S. Obama Delivers Howard’s Commencement 3 Fashion & Style Bill Cunningham | Garden Party 4 Science Why It’s Hard to Keep the Pounds Off 5 U.S. How Will Obama Spend His Retirement? 6 World The Killing of Farkhunda 7 Science Parrots: The Highlight Reel 8 Opinion A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race 9 Health In Love and Loss 10 Food How to Cut Up a Whole Chicken © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Business   About to Bloom. Advertisement By Mel Rosen Mar 11, 2014 The New York Times Crossword is available through subscription only. TUESDAY’S PUZZLE — It’s been a while since we’ve seen Mel Rosen. His last New York Times puzzle was the infamous “Question Box” grid, but he’s back today with a puzzle that hopefully will be more reliable in predicting the arrival of spring than Punxsutawney Phil. At first glance, Mr. Rosen’s theme seems to be a few random phrases that might or might not suggest an anagram theme, since the letters seem to be fairly common. What we actually have here, however, is one of those clever “take a common phrase and find other phrases that follow its directions” themes. More specifically, Mr. Rosen has found four phrases that all start with the letters “B-U” and end in “D” so that we have a theme that is, as 49 Down reveals, IN BUD. I don’t know about you, but I’m taking that as a warning to start a regular regimen of antihistamines. What I find interesting about this theme is that all four of the theme entries seem to be making their debuts in The New York Times puzzle, but the rest of the entries have been seen before. One thing that made me smile was that Mr. Rosen managed to get the word DONE (clued cleverly as “Puzzle solver’s happy shout”) at the very end of the solve. Clue of the Day for me was 39 Down’s “Volume that requires lots of preparations to compile?” for COOK BOOK. Let’s welcome Mr. Rosen back: Some puzzles can truly be characterized as “inspired.” This one, however, came from my “I really ought to compose a puzzle” muse. That said: Daily crosswords in most markets carry no titles; consequently, constructions utilizing a “reveal” entry appeal to me because they offer the solver an “aha” moment. “Reveal” entries are sometimes as long as the theme answer phrases: for example, the theoretical-but-probably-not-useful reveal AFTERMATH could be a hint for the same-length answer MAJOR DOMO (as in MATH MAJOR) as well as unrelated answers like SYMBOL FOR LEAD and TEST MARKET. Casting about for ideas for this puzzle I thought of IN BUD, which is apt for springtime. Then I found four suitable long entries that seem to be first-timers, which is always fun: BUms arounD, BUrma roaD, BUll-noseD, and BUttonwooD. As to the development of the grid: I don’t remember what I had for lunch yesterday, so other than making sure the reveal was in the grid — near the bottom to delay the “aha” — I honestly don’t recall if there were tricky regions of the construction. The grid design has lots of relatively isolated areas with many options everywhere. I knew I was aiming for Monday-Tuesday difficulty and tried to keep the fill on the straightforward side. And now, to take us to the Wednesday puzzle, Fats Waller and Thelonius Monk playing “LULU’s Back in Town”: Your thoughts? Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. David Kahn puts us through the wringer.Read more… Emily Cox and Henry Rathvon offer us a challenging cryptic crossword puzzle.Read more… A place for solvers to discuss and ask questions about the “A Little Variety” suite of puzzles.Read more… Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   Welsh University to Open Mauritius Campus. Advertisement Advertisement By THE INTERNATIONAL NEW YORK TIMESMARCH 9, 2014 Aberystwyth University, in Wales, plans to open a campus on the Indian Ocean island of Mauritius and begin offering academic programs there in September. Students at the campus, in Port Louis, the capital, will be awarded Aberystwyth University degrees, the university said last week, and courses will be taught in conjunction with a commercial provider of higher education on the island. “The government of Mauritius has ambitious plans to establish the country as an international knowledge hub and attract 100,000 students to study there over the next 10 years,” said April McMahon, an Aberystwyth professor who announced the plan in London. The Mauritius campus will initially offer four undergraduate degrees and a Master of Science in international business, subject to accreditation by the education authorities on Mauritius. Aberystwyth will be the second British university on the island, after Middlesex University opened a campus there in January 2010. — CHRISTOPHER F. SCHUETZE   Harvard retains top spot in survey of academics Harvard University remains the world’s most reputable university among academics, according to an annual ranking by Times Higher Education in London. In the four years since the magazine started the World Reputation Rankings in 2011, Harvard has led the list every year. Advertisement Almost half of the Top 100 universities — as ranked by 10,536 academics from 133 countries who participated in the survey — were based in the United States. The number of American universities in the Top 100 rose to 46 this year from 43 in 2013, the magazine said Thursday. The Massachusetts Institute of Technology was ranked second, followed by Stanford University, which was sixth last year. After the United States, the country with the most universities on the list was Britain, with 10. The University of Cambridge was fourth and the University of Oxford was fifth, and they were the only non-American institutions in the Top 10. Germany had six universities in the Top 100, Australia and Japan each had five, and the Netherlands had four. — PETER TEFFER A version of this article appears in print on March 10, 2014, in The International New York Times. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Health   Check Your Head. Channels & Shows Home Search Health Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Health Check Your Head By Kassie Bracken and David Frank | Mar. 10, 2014 | 2:31 A high-tech tool to combat concussion damage, the Reebok Checklight is a sensor worn under the helmet that lights up upon significant impact. Related: blogpost: A Concussion Monitor to Measure Hard Knocks Show More PlaylistUp Next in Health Next →   New York1:16 So You Want to Do a Handstand?   Health3:01 Why It’s Hard to Keep the Pounds Off   Health1:41 Police Shootings of the Mentally Ill   Health2:50 Wash Your Hands. No, Like This.   International2:06 Understanding Zika   New York1:02 Flying After 45 Retro Report U.S. & Politics2:03 Is it All in Your Gut? Retro Report U.S. & Politics1:39 The Unexpected Science of Exercise Retro Report U.S. & Politics2:03 The Bliss Point Retro Report U.S. & Politics12:30 A Decades-Long Search for a Perfect Diet © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Movies   Tilda Swinton: 'Only Lovers Left Alive'. Channels & Shows Home Search Culture Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Culture Tilda Swinton: 'Only Lovers Left Alive' By Mekado Murphy | Mar. 10, 2014 | 1:49 The actress discusses her role as a 3000-year-old vampire in Jim Jarmusch's latest film. Show More PlaylistUp Next in Culture Next → This Week’s Movies Culture3:28 This Week’s Movies | May 6, 2016   U.S.0:22 Obama, Dancing With the Star (Wars)   Opinion6:58 Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics   Fashion1:13 Red Carpet Arrivals at the Met Ball   Culture3:07 Tony Nominations Are Announced This Week’s Movies Culture3:28 This Week’s Movies | April 29, 2016 Anatomy of a Scene Culture2:41 Anatomy | ‘The Man Who Knew Infinity’   Europe0:29 Big Ben to Be Silenced   Food1:12 Tomatillo Pineapple Salsa | Taste Makers   Taste Makers6:01 Nigerian Food, Crash-and-Burn Style | Taste Makers © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Science   The Monitored Man Sign Up for the Running Email. Advertisement Personal technology for health and fitness. For years, health advocates have been telling us to move more. But just how much more? A multitude of activity tracking devices now promise to answer that question. Generally, these digital monitors, which can be worn around the wrist, on collars and belts, even as jewelry, record how and how much you move throughout the day. Some aim to do a great deal more. Makers of the devices have begun intensive campaigns aimed at convincing the large population of “worried well” consumers to get wired and start recording their every move. We tested some of the latest and most popular trackers to compare how they work and the various features they offer. Here’s what we found. High-tech fitness and activity trackers all share one thing: an accelerometer. Here’s how they work — and don’t. How well do these work? Curious about the benefits and limits, I’ve been testing as many different models as possible — wearing them day and night for six months, 11 models in all, sometimes four at once. I’ve learned a great deal about these gadgets. And about myself. I’d thought I was a fairly active person: I bike to work most days and hit the gym or get other physical activity two or three times a week. The trackers, on the other hand, showed that aside from those spates of exercise, for the vast majority of each day I was completely sedentary. But that may not be the whole story. Activity trackers typically combine a wearable device with a website or smartphone app to view data collected about your movements. The goal is to measure not only your steps from the parking lot to your desk, but also your sedentary down time at work or in front of a television, bursts of intense exercise and even your sleep habits — all to create a complete picture of your most and least healthful behaviors. Some models also offer tips and set goals based on your data. The most popular models are made by Fitbit, Nike and Jawbone; the gadgets typically cost $60 to $200. Most are made of rubber and plastic and come in a choice of colors, with the notable exception of the Shine, made of metal by Misfit Wearables. In 2013, activity trackers generated an estimated $290 million in American retail sales, according to Ben Arnold, an analyst at New York’s NPD Group, who says the market could double this year. The sharp rise of trackers stems from advances in chip technology. The devices all share a common sensor, an accelerometer that can track movement in three dimensions (up and down, side to side, and forward and back). Accelerometers can now be made small enough and at a low enough cost that they can be embedded in almost anything. While all activity trackers have an accelerometer, some include additional sensors to pick up other signs of activity. BodyMedia makes an armband that measures perspiration and muscle heat for a more accurate assessment of activity level and calories burned. Basis Science sells the B1 Band watch, which measures heart rate, perspiration and skin temperature. The Pulse, from Withings of France, can measure resting heart rate. Many trackers estimate the length and fitfulness of sleep by sensing how much you move throughout the night. And Polar and Garmin both make trackers that can pair with chest straps to record heart rate during a workout. But even the best tracker can’t recognize all of your movements. As I sit writing this, my wrists are motionless, but my leg is tapping to music. My activity trackers don’t seem to notice — fidgeting won’t be reflected in the calorie counts they show me. That’s too bad, because there’s an interesting body of research suggesting that a propensity to fidget is one reason lean people stay lean. More surprisingly, perhaps, only the trackers made by Basis and BodyMedia gave me credit for being active when riding my bike. Most of the rest just sat on my wrist, recording no activity — and true enough, my wrist wasn’t moving much as I pedaled through the city traffic. All of them were more accurate when I was playing tennis. Activity trackers usually don’t measure exertion, only motion. Company officials say that intense exercise is just a small part of the average consumer’s day, and that it’s more useful to capture the bigger fitness picture. For “high-resistance, low-movement exercises, none of these work really well, including us,” said Sonny Vu, chief executive of Misfit Wearables. But “it’s the other 23 and a half hours that’s the most interesting.” Despite the occasional gaps, I found tracking to be useful if I focused less on the precise numbers and more on day-to-day variations in activity. Comparing the 16,000 steps I take on some weekend days to the 6,000 or 7,000 on a typical workday made me work harder to move more on weekdays. Can trackers really change behavior in people? Last year, Dr. Rajani Larocca, a primary care physician at Massachusetts General Hospital, conducted a six-week lifestyle program for 10 patients with diabetes ages 50 to 70 that included weekly sessions to encourage exercise and healthful eating; each participant also was outfitted with a Fitbit Zip tracker. “Every single person increased their activity,” Dr. Larocca said. “People felt more knowledgeable.” Eight months later, about half the patients from the group still wear a tracker. Researchers at the Center for Connected Health in Boston have been giving activity trackers to subjects for six to nine months, then studying changes in their behavior. Dr. Kamal Jethwani, head of research at the center, said he saw three distinct groups of people among study participants. About 10 percent are “quantified selfers” with an affinity for this kind of feedback; just by looking at the numbers, they are motivated to be more active. An additional 20 percent to 30 percent need some encouragement in addition to tracker data to effectively change their behavior. But most of the subjects observed by Dr. Jethwani don’t understand the data and need help making sense of it. For them, he said, social motivation from a friend or joining a team or workplace challenge may be more effective. I figure I’m in the second group, the ones who need a little push. One of my favorite features is the Jawbone UP’s inactivity alert. I set mine to vibrate on my wrist if I haven’t moved in the past hour. And Jawbone’s smartphone app offers personalized tips that are actually interesting. For instance: “When you go to bed 30 minutes later than average, you tend to take 971 fewer steps the next day.” And after several late nights, I was told: “Go to bed before 12:44 a.m.” Well, O.K. Other trackers, like Fitbit’s, have tried to increase motivation by focusing on short-term goals — making it to 10,000 steps each day, for example. The Basis tracker awards points for keeping to “streaks” of healthy activity, like the number of days you’re active for more than 30 minutes. Of the trackers I tested, Nike’s FuelBand put the strongest emphasis on competition with friends. But almost all the apps now have social features allowing you to share your activities, offer encouragement and hold one another accountable for goals. All the data you’re recording is tied to a particular company’s software, so you can’t take it along if you decide to switch tracking devices. But many allow calorie data to be shared with other apps, like MyFitnessPal or LoseIt. Having worn more of these trackers than any human should, I have to admit I am less captivated than I once was. Now I almost never look at the data that they collect. But that’s not necessarily a bad thing. “The goal should not be to make people wear the activity tracker for the whole year,” Dr. Jethwani said. “It’s to have them wear it when it’s meaningful” — that is, when better habits start to slip away. These days, I’ve become keenly aware of how active I am and how active I need to be in order to feel healthy and energized. I don’t need a monitor anymore. I’m tracking me. Have you used an activity or fitness tracker? Tell us about it. A version of this article appears in print on 03/11/2014, on page D1 of the NewYork edition with the headline: The Monitored Man. Your health questions answered by Times journalists and experts. Your Questions | All » Get Well's Running email for practical tips, expert advice, exclusive content and a bit of motivation delivered to your inbox every week to help you on your running journey. Coming soon. How much do you know about the amazing things that go on in your gut? Take our quiz to find out about the creepy, crawly critters living in your home. What surface is the most friendly to the flu virus? Where’s the best place to stand when you’re talking to a sick person? How does sleep affect health, relationships and well-being? The “Reading the Mind in the Eyes Test” measures ability to understand others’ emotional states. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   Photos: The Big East’s Garden Party. Advertisement Advertisement By LYNN ZINSERMARCH 12, 2014 The way the Big East tells it, this year’s men’s basketball tournament represents a return to the conference’s roots as a group of proud basketball schools that escaped from under the thumb of all-powerful college football to revel in their sport’s greatness. And they will do it at Madison Square Garden, the conference tournament’s home since 1983. In reality, the Big East’s current membership would stump most “Jeopardy” contestants, and the gathering is certain to feel haunted by the ghosts of departed stalwarts like Syracuse, Connecticut and Pittsburgh. In 1983, when the conference talked its way into the World’s Most Famous Arena, after three years of shuttling among less famous ones, there were no ghosts lurking in the Garden’s hallways. There was just Commissioner Dave Gavitt and his audacious creation, a nine-team cabal with an ESPN contract, riding a wave that would lift college basketball to unimagined heights in the world of television and entertainment. The conference’s initial tournament, in 1980, had been played — and rather sparsely attended — at the Providence Civic Center, which made sense because Gavitt was Providence College’s former coach and put the conference’s first headquarters there. The tournament migrated to Syracuse’s Carrier Dome in 1981, where more than 15,000 people watched the title game. They were treated to Syracuse’s three-overtime victory over Villanova, which raised the league’s profile. By the time the Big East tournament went to the Hartford Civic Center in 1982, Georgetown had Patrick Ewing in the fold and the big time was beckoning. Moving to the Garden came with a little controversy. People believed it gave St. John’s a home-court advantage because it played many home games there. To that, St. John’s Coach Lou Carnesecca scoffed. “There is no such thing as a hometown advantage,” Carnesecca said. “For one thing, the refs don’t want to be called homers. For another, the fans are not as provincial here as other places. If you play well, O.K. If you don’t, you’d better wear a helmet.” St. John’s, powered by Chris Mullin and David Russell, won that first tournament at the Garden, but as if to prove Carnesecca prophetic, it won only two more in the next 30 years. But unlike many of the combatants of those early tournaments, St. John’s is still in the Big East, trying to win more. Go to Home Page »
Technology   Excerpts From Snowden’s SXSW Speech. Channels & Shows Home Search Business Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Business Excerpts From Snowden’s SXSW Speech By Christian Roman | Mar. 10, 2014 | 1:46 Edward J. Snowden, the former National Security Agency contractor, discussed government surveillance via video conference at the South by Southwest conference. Related: blogpost: Snowden Urges Tech Industry to Protect Customers Show More PlaylistUp Next in Business Next →   Business1:31 Fiat Chief on New Innovation Ideas   International1:04 McDonald’s Copycat in Separatist Ukraine Driven Business4:41 Driven | 2017 Kia Sportage   Technology0:37 Australian Says He Created Bitcoin Driven Business4:34 Driven | 2017 Hyundai Elantra   Business0:43 Mitsubishi President on Data Scandal   Europe0:50 VW Chief on Emissions Cheating Costs   Business0:40 Footage of Man in Cake Dispute Driven Business4:59 Driven | S.U.V. Mudfest   U.S. & Politics1:23 Social Chatter: Tubman on the 20 © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Travel   A Ski Pass for the States — and Japan. Advertisement Vail Resorts already offers holders of its season Epic Pass access to all 10 resorts it operates primarily in Colorado, Utah and the Lake Tahoe region. Next year the pass will include ski days in a more distant locale: Japan. The 2014/2015 Epic Pass, which goes on sale Monday for $729, will include five consecutive days at Niseko United, a ski area 60 miles south of Sapporo on the northern island of Hokkaido. Skiing in Japan is certainly more complicated to get to than Colorado for most Americans, but partnering with the Asian destination was intended in part to appeal to Epic Pass holders in the Asia Pacific region, specifically Australia, one of the top foreign markets for visits to its resorts, said Kirsten Lynch, executive vice president and chief marketing officer of Vail Resorts. According to the company, pass holders represent 50 states and 80 countries, and almost half of all season pass holders reside outside Colorado, where the company operates Vail, Beaver Creek, Breckenridge and Keystone. To test the willingness of holders to travel on its pass, Vail Resorts held a race this year to reward the first 10 skiers or snowboarders to ski at all of the mountains on the pass – which was 24 in 2013-14 – with a season pass for life. “Internally, we thought 30 to 70 would sign up for it,” Ms. Lynch. said. “But 340 signed up for it. At least 150 have finished it, and the season isn’t over yet.” Bragging rights apparently are an equally motivating prize. In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
U.S.   Boston Marathon to Have More Security. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Video Boston Marathon to Have More Security Mar. 10, 2014 | 1:56 The Boston Marathon next month will have a number of enhanced safety measures after last year's deadly bombing, including thousands of uniformed and plainclothes officers and bomb-sniffing dogs. Related: article: Boston Plans to Tighten Security at Marathon Show More PlaylistUp Next in Video Next → Op-Docs: Season 5 9:23 I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked   Video1:08 Hitting all the Right Notes Op-Docs: Season 5 13:33 Manufacturing China’s Future Op-Docs: Season 5 6:05 Fashion vs. Art   Video0:56 Excerpt: ‘The Father’   Video0:33 Excerpt: ‘Exit Strategy’ Op-Docs: Season 5 7:19 A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race   Video1:58 Excerpt: ‘Antlia Pneumatica’   News Clips: Europe1:20 Officials React to Panama Papers   News Clips: Europe3:47 Mossack Fonseca on Data Leak © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Business   I’m Buying!. Advertisement By Jeff Chen Mar 12, 2014 The New York Times Crossword is available through subscription only. WEDNESDAY’S PUZZLE — This is one of those themes where you would be well-advised not to be drinking a beverage when that “Aha!” moment comes, lest you blow said beverage out your nose. I’m just warning you. I knew we were doing some sort of beverage theme when I dropped MILK and JUICE into Jeff Chen’s puzzle, because it’s just too much of a coincidence to have such similar clues and entries next to each other. Most of the TEA that I drink isn’t “tan,” but it was easy enough to guess that one. So what we end up with, at the end of today’s solve, is DRINKS ALL AROUND the grid, and the reveal stretched across the center. Nicely done, Mr. Chen. And it’s a fairly smooth solve, too. The only place I hit a speed bump was at 25 Across’s C.S.A. (Confederate States of America) I knew that R.E. Lee had to be Robert E. Lee, and that C.S.A. had to be Confederate States of America, and yet it just would not go in. Thank goodness for crossings. In nontheme news, I enjoyed SNOOKERED, TOONIE and PAPER DOLL. After a puzzle like this, there’s only one way to flow over to the Thursday puzzle, and that’s with a good, solid DRINKing song: Your thoughts? Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. David Kahn puts us through the wringer.Read more… Emily Cox and Henry Rathvon offer us a challenging cryptic crossword puzzle.Read more… A place for solvers to discuss and ask questions about the “A Little Variety” suite of puzzles.Read more… Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Food   What’s In It?. Channels & Shows Home Search Food Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos What’s in that cookie dough? The investigative reporter Michael Moss breaks down the often hidden ingredients in processed foods and shows how marketing and chemistry have shaped modern eating habits. Recent Episodes in What’s In It? What’s In It? Food 1:44 What’s In It | Cookie Dough Oreos What’s In It? Food 1:42 What’s In It | Protein Bars What’s In It? Food 2:03 What’s In It | Nuts What’s In It? Food 2:02 What’s In It | Pumpkin Flavor What’s In It? Food 2:12 What’s In It | Doritos Locos Tacos Most Popular 1 Opinion Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics 2 U.S. Obama Delivers Howard’s Commencement 3 Fashion & Style Bill Cunningham | Garden Party 4 Science Why It’s Hard to Keep the Pounds Off 5 U.S. How Will Obama Spend His Retirement? 6 World The Killing of Farkhunda 7 Science Parrots: The Highlight Reel 8 Opinion A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race 9 Health In Love and Loss 10 Food How to Cut Up a Whole Chicken © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Foreign   Image of the Day: March 11. Advertisement   India’s national elections began April 7 and will continue on nine separate dates until May 12, with results expected to be announced on May 16. The vote is the world’s largest, with 814 million eligible voters set to choose 543 members of the lower house of Parliament. The other two seats will be appointed by the president. This election is widely considered to be India’s most consequential since 1977. India Ink will be moving to the World page of The New York Times. Read more… A memorial ceremony at the Imphal War Cemetery in Manipur to honor the soldiers who died during World War II.Read more… The newly elected prime minister reaches out to the public in a blog post about his first 30 days in office.Read more… Newborns whose mothers are unable to breastfeed are given stored breast milk to protect them from potentially life-threatening infection.Read more… In the final stage of a long decline, Hindustan Motors announced in May that it would suspend production of the Ambassador, a car that was once synonymous with style and status.Read more… This report on India from the journalists of The New York Times and a pool of talented writers in India and beyond provides unbiased, authoritative reporting on the country and its place in the world. India Ink also strives to be a virtual meeting point for discussion of this complex, fast-changing democracy – its politics, economy, culture and everyday life. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Science   Steel-Cut Oats With Amaranth Seeds, Chia Seeds and Blueberries. Advertisement Advertisement Recipes for Health By MARTHA ROSE SHULMAN MARCH 10, 2014 Fresh blueberries are not in season at the moment, so I put my frozen organic wild blueberries to good use in this hearty mix. The chia and the amaranth pump up the nutritional value of this cereal — both are high in calcium, amaranth is high in protein, and chia seeds are a great source of healthful omega-3s. They also contribute texture. For even more great texture, top the cereal with chopped toasted hazelnuts or almonds. Total time: 5 minutes (plus overnight soaking) For each bowl: 1/4 cup regular or quick cooking steel-cut oats 1 tablespoon amaranth seeds 1 teaspoon chia seeds Salt to taste (I use a generous pinch) 1 heaped tablespoon fresh or frozen blueberries, or more to taste (out of season I recommend small frozen wild blueberries) 3/4 cup water 1 teaspoon honey or maple syrup, plus more as desired for drizzling Optional toppings: milk, chopped toasted skinned hazelnuts, chopped toasted almonds, grated apple or pear, freeze-dried blueberries Advertisement 1. The night before, stir together steel-cut oats, amaranth seeds, chia seeds, salt and blueberries in a medium microwave-proof bowl. Bring water to a boil and pour over mixture. Add honey or maple syrup and stir, then cover bowl with a plate. 2. In the morning, microwave mixture for 2 minutes on 100 percent power. Remove bowl from microwave and carefully remove plate (bowl will be hot and steam will rise from cereal). Stir mixture, cover again and return to microwave. Heat for 2 minutes more, or until mixture is no longer watery. 3. Transfer to a serving dish and sprinkle on toppings of your choice. Yield: Serves 1 Nutritional information per serving: 167 calories; 3 grams fat; 1 gram saturated fat; 2 grams polyunsaturated fat; 1 gram monounsaturated fat; 0 milligrams cholesterol; 30 grams carbohydrates; 4 grams dietary fiber; 8 milligrams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 6 grams protein Martha Rose Shulman is the author of “The Very Best of Recipes for Health.” See More » Go to Home Page »
Sports   Islanders Score 7 Goals in 3rd Period to Top Canucks. Advertisement Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 11, 2014 VANCOUVER, British Columbia — Matt Martin scored the winner in the Islanders’ seven-goal third period, and New York erased a three-goal deficit in the final frame to beat the Vancouver Canucks 7-4 on Monday night. Martin made it 5-4 at 10:04 for the third for the Islanders, who reversed a recent trend and rallied late instead of squandering a lead. Josh Bailey, Ryan Strome, Calvin de Haan, Frans Nielsen, Anders Lee and Cal Clutterbuck also scored for the Islanders (25-33-9), who scored four times in the first 6:22 of the third. The Islanders tied the team record for goals in a period, matching the mark set in the second period of a 9-4 win over the New York Rangers on Dec. 23, 1978. Chris Higgins, Henrik Sedin, Ryan Kesler and Chris Tanev scored for the Canucks (29-28-10), who lost for the 12th time in 14 games. Advertisement Evgeni Nabokov made 20 saves in the win. Eddie Lack stopped 21 shots for the Canucks. The Islanders let two-goal leads get away in the third periods of losses to Edmonton and Calgary on consecutive nights last week. New York went 2-1-1 on its four-game trip and improved to 8-22-2 when trailing after two periods this season. The Islanders are only 9-6-5 when leading after two. Vancouver was ahead 1-0 after the first period and 3-0 following the second before allowing the Islanders back in it. New York’s first three goals came on power plays, and Nielsen’s goal came right after another Vancouver penalty had expired. Higgins opened the scoring on a power play at 15:16 when he put in a backhand after Yannick Weber’s slap shot hit the post. Henrik Sedin put the Canucks ahead 2-0 at 4:52 of the second as he put a shot in off Clutterbuck from the behind the net for his first goal in 24 games. Canucks rookie Nicklas Jensen, recently called up from the AHL, earned his first NHL point with an assist. Kesler made it 3-0 about five minutes later when he put in Kevin Bieksa’s rebound off the goal post. Alex Burrows earned an assist for his 300th NHL point. Advertisement Bailey started the comeback at 1:13 of the third while Jensen was serving a slashing penalty that carried over from the second period. Strome and de Haan scored power-play goals 22 seconds apart to tie it. Nielsen put the Islanders ahead 4-3 just under three minutes later with a shot from the wing. The crowd let out a huge roar of relief when Tanev tied it 4-4 at 9:54. Martin, however, gave the Isles the lead only 10 seconds later on a backhand from the slot, and Lee padded New York’s lead 1:44 after that. Lee put in Okposo’s rebound off defenseman Dan Hamhuis, who had tended the goal while Lack was caught out of position following the initial save on the first of three New York shots. Clutterbuck added an empty-net goal in the final minute. NOTES: The Islanders had seven rookies in their lineup. ... New York lost forward Michael Grabner late in the second period after he collided with Tanev. ... Canucks forward Zack Kassian served the second of a three-game suspension. ... Islanders D Thomas Hickey is the only player to dress for all of New York’s 67 games this season. Go to Home Page »
Travel   Hotel Discounts for Egencia Users. Advertisement An increasing number of travelers are turning to their smart phones and tablets to make travel arrangements on the fly. In turn, hotels, travel Web sites and application developers seem to be scrambling to offer more services via mobile applications. Egencia, the business travel brand of Expedia, has made headway in that area recently, launching “mobile-only” hotel discounts for Egencia members who book through its Trip Navigator app. The discounts give 10 to 50 percent off regular room rates at more than 7,000 partner hotels in North America, Europe, Latin America, Asia-Pacific region and the Middle East and Africa, according to a statement from the company. More than a third of those hotels will also allow users to accrue loyalty points through these bookings and will waive same-day cancellation fees. Egencia members can search for discounted rates through the company’s Trip Navigator app, which was released in November 2013. In addition to providing a mobile reservation and booking service, it allows users to view a detailed timeline of their travel plans, including flights, car rentals, hotel reservations and rail service, along with an interactive map for each stage of their trip. Flight status updates and connection to Egencia’s travel consultants are also available through the app, which is compatible with iOS devices. Until the company launches its version for Android devices–expected within the next few months–those members can access the service through Egencia’s mobile booking Web site. In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Business   Kid’s Art Activity. Advertisement By Alex Vratsanos Mar 13, 2014 The New York Times Crossword is available through subscription only. THURSDAY’S PUZZLE — To whom do you silently give thanks when you solve a New York Times crossword puzzle? Of course, there’s editor Will Shortz; we wouldn’t be having this discussion if he didn’t select seven crosswords each week for us to dig into. I’m talking about those who have taught you the popular and sometimes arcane things you need to know in order to be a decent solver. I’m not ritually observant, but I mutter a special “thank you” under my breath to all of the people I’ve learned things from that help me solve my crossword puzzles. My mother first sat me down and made me watch the gorgeous movie based on Edna FERBER’s novel “Giant” so I could moon over James Dean and Rock Hudson with her, but she had no idea that I was also taking in more information than how handsome the stars were. I also thank The Boy for being obsessed with the history of video games, so I could confidently write in EIGHT-BIT at 10 Down (and he thinks I’m not listening!). While we’re busy thanking people, let’s stop to thank Alex Vratsanos, who constructed today’s COLOR BY NUMBERS-themed puzzle for us. I saw the hint at 13 Down that warned me there would be something extra to look out for, but it took me a while to actually see the colors emerge. This is why it pays to read the documentation, people; for some reason (I’m pleading fever), I thought that maybe the colors would be crossing the numbers, but that’s not what Mr. Vratsanos said, is it? He said they would be BY the numbers, and by golly, there they are. In the northwest, we have SIX sitting closely by RED, in the northeast we have EIGHT by BLACK, the southwest has THREE by GREEN, and the southeast has ONE by TAN. In nontheme news, I had to look up the only film to have won Best Picture that was RATED X (1969’s “Midnight Cowboy”). I also didn’t immediately recall that the Boston legend Phil was Phil ESPOsito (apologies, Boston fans) or who Conrad NAGEL was. Also, I learned to spell Rembrandt’s name as RIJN, not RYN, and spent more time than I care to tell hovering over that three-letter entry muttering “Maybe it’s a rebus…” Once I got over that hump, however, I went back to thanking people. One of the things I love about crossword puzzles, even more than the technical proficiency it takes to construct them (which is considerable and which I greatly respect), is the warm feelings that the puzzle entries evoke for me. Let’s learn more about Mr. Vratsanos’s construction: I don’t quite remember exactly when this theme came to me but, according to my files, my original draft dates back to March 2013. That original draft was not as good as what you now see; BLACK OPS / EIGHT BIT was there, but opposite it was NINE IRON / BLUE NILE, which is not very elegant because of the differing lengths of the colors and numbers as well as their positions in the entries. The other themers were even less elegant, as they were not directly on top of one another (I had been working with horizontal themers up to this point): TEN SPOT was at the right of row 5, and NO TURN ON RED was at the left of row 6. Yes, TEN was right on top of RED, but now BLACK OPS / EIGHT BIT was the only theme pair that was not “number by color” (the other pair was ONE SHOT DEAL / FAKE TAN). A few months later, I tried it again, and it was a step forward, but it did take some more drafting after that to come up with this grid. Even after it was accepted on Jan. 16, I continued to play around with it, but now that it is in The New York Times, I am very satisfied with my work and Will’s. Will did a great job with the clues (I loved his clue for MARGIN), but his biggest contribution was making the themers vertical — much more appropriate considering the revealer. Wish I’d thought to do that, having liked Joe DiPietro’s “Bywords” a few months before it all started for this puzzle. All that said, it’s been a winding road for me since my last New York Times [puzzle] … Jeff Chen and I had sent that puzzle a couple weeks before I reported to the University of Delaware for what proved to be my last semester there. Since then, I’ve found an affinity for numbers at a different school and did really well in my macroeconomics classes there. In fact, I am seriously thinking of making a career of accounting. I hope you all enjoy solving it as much as I did making it! (Would you say I’ve thrown AN AX AT SOLVERS with it?) We wish you well in your studies and hope to see more puzzles from you in the future, Mr. Vratsanos. Let’s move on to the Friday puzzle by following the character of “Joe Buck” in the movie “Midnight Cowboy”: Your thoughts? Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. David Kahn puts us through the wringer.Read more… Emily Cox and Henry Rathvon offer us a challenging cryptic crossword puzzle.Read more… A place for solvers to discuss and ask questions about the “A Little Variety” suite of puzzles.Read more… Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   Offering a German Lesson for Asia’s History Wars. Advertisement ‘‘Why not let him visit the Holocaust memorial?’’ asked Chan Koonchung, a Beijing-based Hong Kong writer, of President Xi Jinping of China. Mr. Chan, the author of ‘‘The Fat Years,’’ a novel about an überconfident China, was talking about media reports that the German government did not want the Chinese leader to make an official visit to the Memorial to the Murdered Jews of Europe during his visit to Berlin this month. With its intimate experience of the difficult intellectual debates and honesty needed to work through a national trauma of totalitarianism and wartime aggression, the German government feared being dragged into the history wars between China and Japan over World War II, Reuters and Der Spiegel reported.  For months, senior Chinese and Japanese officials, including Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, had traded veiled and not-so-veiled barbs about who was more dangerous to peace in Asia — a rising, undemocratic China, or a Japan whose prime minister prayed at the Yasukuni Shrine in Tokyo, where 14 Class A war criminals are honored. Fueling the tensions was a dispute over islands in the East China Sea that are claimed by both countries. On Jan. 24, Xinhua, the Chinese state news agency, appeared to drag Germany into the quarrel when it posted on Twitter an iconic photograph of Willy Brandt, the late German chancellor, on his knees in Warsaw in 1970 in front of a memorial to the Jews murdered by Nazi Germany, in a gesture of humility that stunned and impressed the world. ‘‘Only a correct attitude towards history can shape future: Chinese Ambassador,’’ Xinhua said. Japan, implied China, lacked Mr. Brandt’s ‘‘correct attitude.’’ Yet neither Japan nor China was ‘‘correct,’’ Mr. Chan said. In 2011, appreciating the depth of the problem, he and other intellectuals tried to organize a conference of Japanese and Chinese historians willing to talk — honestly, painfully — about the past. It was to take place in 2012, the 75th anniversary of the 1937 Nanjing Massacre, when Japanese soldiers went on a deadly rampage in the Chinese city. The Chinese government says at least 300,000 Chinese were killed in Nanjing, while other estimates have ranged from 30,000 to 200,000. Last month, Beijing declared two days of national remembrance — one on Dec. 13, for the massacre, and one on Sept. 3, to mark the victory over Japan in 1945. Yet the war is so politicized in China, and dislike of Japan runs so deep in some quarters, that it was hard to find Chinese historians willing to challenge the state’s narrative, Mr. Chan said. Over all, China’s record of truth-telling about its own past was poor. There were real issues to face, such as collaboration during the war. But in the absence of honest discussion, what was the point of a conference? Mr. Chan gave up. For historical reasons Berlin could have been a good place to hold such an event, he said, but ‘‘it never got into the planning stage.’’ Meanwhile, the reports that Germany rejected Mr. Xi’s Holocaust memorial visit seem to have alarmed officials in Berlin, who need China’s support for a political solution to the crisis in Ukraine, where Russia has effectively seized Crimea. On Sunday, in a call with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, Mr. Xi offered his support and Ms. Merkel told Mr. Xi she was ‘‘very happy’’ about his coming visit, a spokesman said. So far, no itinerary has been announced. On Tuesday, a spokesman for the German Foreign Ministry, Konrad Lax, said that was merely because it was too early. ‘‘We were not negative or laggardly towards the wishes of the Chinese delegation,’’ Mr. Lax said. Another German official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said an itinerary would probably be known on March 21. If Mr. Xi wants to visit the memorial, he can do so privately, the official said. ‘‘It’s often the case that visiting heads of state’’ undertake activities ‘‘that are not part of the official program,’’ he said. Mr. Chan, for one, hopes Mr. Xi will see the memorial. The president might learn something about history, about truth-telling and about reconciliation, he said. Sinosphere, the China blog of The New York Times, delivers intimate, authoritative coverage of the planet's most populous nation and its relationship with the rest of the world. Drawing on timely, engaging dispatches from The Times’ distinguished team of China correspondents, this blog brings readers into the debates and discussions taking place inside a fast-changing country and details the cultural, economic and political developments shaping the lives of 1.3 billion people. Some called on the government to send troops to the Middle East in retaliation to an Islamic State killing, while others cautioned that such a move could invite terrorism at home.Read more… The dissidents had won official recognition as refugees and had been previously detained in China for their activism, Chris Buckley reports.Read more… Human rights advocates listened with a mixture of incredulity and derision to the delegation’s responses on interrogation, Nick Cumming-Bruce reports. Read more… In the Philippines for an Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit, President Obama urged China to halt military activities on the disputed islands, Michael D. Shear reports. Read more… The dead, including women and children, were said to have been involved in a knife attack in September that left 50 people dead at a mine near the Kyrgyzstan border, Javier C. Hernández reports. Read more… Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Movies   Interview: Seth Rogen and Zac Efron. Channels & Shows Home Search Culture Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Culture Interview: Seth Rogen and Zac Efron By Mekado Murphy | Mar. 12, 2014 | 1:54 Two of the stars of “Neighbors” discuss their film. Show More PlaylistUp Next in Culture Next → This Week’s Movies Culture3:28 This Week’s Movies | May 6, 2016   U.S.0:22 Obama, Dancing With the Star (Wars)   Opinion6:58 Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics   Fashion1:13 Red Carpet Arrivals at the Met Ball   Culture3:07 Tony Nominations Are Announced This Week’s Movies Culture3:28 This Week’s Movies | April 29, 2016 Anatomy of a Scene Culture2:41 Anatomy | ‘The Man Who Knew Infinity’   Europe0:29 Big Ben to Be Silenced   Food1:12 Tomatillo Pineapple Salsa | Taste Makers   Taste Makers6:01 Nigerian Food, Crash-and-Burn Style | Taste Makers © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Science   Questions About a Popular Heart Procedure. Advertisement Our great-great-grandparents probably didn’t have to think much about the way the heart’s aortic valve slowly stiffens and narrows over decades, a condition called aortic stenosis. Most of them died before they could experience its distressing symptoms — shortness of breath, chest pain, fatigue, fainting. Now, an estimated quarter of a million older adults get that diagnosis annually. When the stenosis becomes severe, they have to grapple with their medical options, a decision becoming steadily more complicated. “There’s no real medical therapy for this” – no drug, that is – “because it’s a mechanical problem,” said Dr. Harlan Krumholz, a professor of medicine at Yale University. For decades, the standard treatment has been aortic valve replacement surgery: opening the chest and stopping the heart to replace the malfunctioning valve. “That used to be the only treatment that improved symptoms and survival,” said Dr. Dae Hyun Kim, a gerontologist at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center in Boston. Once older people develop symptoms, about half die within two years. Surgery drastically reduces that risk. Still, it is such a big operation that about a third of elderly patients either decide to avoid it or are warned they won’t survive it. Dr. Krumholz, senior author of a recent article in The Journal of the American Medical Association looking at the surgery’s growing use and declining mortality risk, calls it “a technique that’s been around for decades, that’s getting better, but that is traumatic.”  Enter a newcomer, transcatheter aortic valve replacement. T.A.V.R., as it is known, involves a catheter, usually inserted through the groin, that delivers a new valve without a big incision and sometimes without general anesthesia. The Food and Drug Administration approved it in 2011 for patients whose aortic stenosis is considered inoperable, then in 2012 for the larger group of patients deemed “high risk” (an expansion skeptics call “indication creep”). It sounded like a big step forward. “Here was this new, sexy-sounding procedure that had a huge amount of press,” said Dr. Torrey Simons, a palliative care specialist at Stanford University who has been analyzing the operation’s cost-effectiveness. If you watch television in New York, you might have seen ads for NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital in which lively older women testified to their happy experiences with T.A.V.R. “No stitches, no pain and in three days, I was home,” an 83-year-old announces. “Unbelievable.” She was particularly lucky, perhaps. Appearing in the same issue of JAMA with Dr. Krumholz’s article was a review of the first 7,710 procedures reported to a national T.A.V.R. registry. The study reported that the median hospital stay was six days, two of them in intensive care. Moreover, patients who opt for the transcatheter procedure face complications that in some cases outweigh those of traditional surgery. The most sobering is stroke: Data from a subset of the registry shows that within 30 days, 2.8 percent of T.A.V.R. patients (median age 84) had had a stroke, 2.5 percent needed to begin kidney dialysis, and 7.6 percent had died, about half of noncardiac causes. After a year, all those measures were higher. Some T.A.V.R. patients need pacemakers or sustain blood vessel damage. A minority see no meaningful improvement in their condition. “It’s still a relatively new technique, and there’s still a learning curve,” Dr. Krumholz said. Traditional aortic valve replacement surgery has a lower stroke risk, and its 30-day mortality rate – 4.2 percent in 2011, according to the JAMA study, a review of 12 years of Medicare records – is lower than that reported to the T.A.V.R. registry. But most patients require longer hospitalizations – a risk in itself to vulnerable older people, which almost by definition these are – and longer recoveries. In both cases, the procedure corrects problems with a single organ. Most patients in their 80s and 90s have multiple chronic diseases. “Fixing one abnormality out of many may not make a huge difference to a patient,” Dr. Kim cautioned. “It doesn’t necessarily translate to better long-term outcomes or a better life.” He and his colleagues recently reviewed 62 T.A.V.R. studies. Many were small and of questionable quality, the team found. They concluded that while most patients with aortic stenosis had reduced symptoms and better physical functioning after the procedure, improvements in general health and on psychological measures were modest. Moreover, some medical centers – about 250 now offer T.A.V.R. – have better results than others. “I’m very concerned that we’re subjecting a lot of people to a procedure that sounds like it makes so much sense before we have all the data,” Dr. Simons said. How are patients faced with these choices – assuming they are surgical candidates and have a choice – supposed to understand the trade-offs? (If you or a family member has undergone treatment for aortic stenosis, please tell us about it below.) Naftali Zvi Frankel knows firsthand how bewildering the decision can be. His grandfather, who received a diagnosis of severe aortic stenosis last year, was eligible to join a clinical trial at a New York hospital. (Mr. Frankel declined to say which.) It would randomly assign him to receive conventional aortic valve surgery or T.A.V.R. “The phrasing used was ‘non-inferior,’ ” Mr. Frankel told me, meaning that one option was no worse than the other. Was that true? Mr. Frankel, a research fellow at the Institute for Advanced Talmudic Studies in New York, told his grandfather he would find out. For more than a month he researched online, poring over medical journals. He even submitted a Freedom of Information Act request to the state Department of Health to try to learn which surgeons and hospitals had the best outcomes. “These facts should be available to the consumer,” Mr. Frankel said. Writing about this experience in JAMA Internal Medicine, he noted that patients get “an idealized vision of T.A.V.R.” but not much information about its risks. His grandfather eventually decided on conventional surgery, recovered well and is living at home in Queens. But how many people can undertake that depth of research? Most will have to rely on carefully questioning their cardiologists and seeking second opinions. Perhaps most important, they will have to consider their own values as they approach the end of their lives. “There are no certainties,” Dr. Krumholz said. Each option involves risks – as does aortic stenosis itself, of course. “This is medicine in the modern age,” he said. Paula Span is the author of “When the Time Comes: Families With Aging Parents Share Their Struggles and Solutions.” A version of this article appears in print on 03/18/2014, on page D5 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Drawbacks for a Heart Treatment. The blog is ending, but our coverage of caregiving and aging is not. The New Old Age will run as a twice-monthly column by Paula Span on nytimes.com and frequently in Science Times. Read more… At many nursing homes and assisted living places, a resident’s passing may be hardly noted.Read more… Circumstances had changed, and all these documents needed to change, too. Read more… Lifestyle modification prevents Type 2 diabetes even more effectively in the elderly than in middle-aged patients.Read more… Julianne Moore gives a wonderful performance in “Still Alice,” but the film skirts the truth about dementia.Read more… Thanks to the marvels of medical science, our parents are living longer than ever before. Most will spend years dependent on others for the most basic needs. That burden falls to their baby boomer children. The New Old Age blog explored this unprecedented intergenerational challenge. Paula Span will continue to write New Old Age columns twice monthly at nytimes.com/health and the conversation will continue on Twitter (@paula_span) and Facebook. A few medical institutions have opened their doors to patients’ own dogs and cats. Scheduling and medication errors plague patients with Parkinson's. Dementia doesn't respect public stature. Is there life after caregiving, and if so what it is like? Comprehensive reference and special reports about diseases, conditions, tests, injuries and surgeries. Useful information, tools, and links to organizations around the Web. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   Skier Taps Natural Terrain. Channels & Shows Home Search Sports Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Sports Skier Taps Natural Terrain By Teton Gravity Research | Mar. 12, 2014 | 3:04 Skier Tim Durtschi garnered attention for his exploits in ski resort terrain parks and jumps in the backcountry. But he has stepped away from manicured features to ski natural terrain. Show More PlaylistUp Next in Sports Next →   The Royal Family1:33 Prince Harry Promotes Invictus Games   Europe0:60 Police Accept Blame for Hillsborough Disaster   Europe0:46 Families Sing After Hillsborough Ruling   Sports1:24 UConn Reflects on Record-Breaking Win   News Clips: Sports2:20 John John Florence Wins ‘the Eddie’   Sports1:51 ‘Human Sacrifice’: Debating Football’s Future   Blood and Sport3:32 Ken Stabler and C.T.E.   Sports5:01 Addicted to a Fantasy   Paris Attacks1:51 French Soccer Team Sings National Anthem   Sports6:27 Drone Racing Dreams © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Travel   China, With You Behind the Wheel. Advertisement Steppes Travel, a London-based company specializing in high-end cultural and archaeological tours, has introduced a 10- to 15-day trip to China with a self-drive component. The itinerary starts in Beijing to see landmarks like the Summer Palace and Tiananmen Square. Travelers then take a high-speed train to Xian to see the terra-cotta warriors. The driving happens on the second half of the trip: travelers fly to Kunming,  the capital city of the Yunnan province in the country’s southwest, where they can get behind the wheel. The area is largely undiscovered but has one of the best road networks in China and is among its most picturesque regions; it’s where the Yangtze, Mekong and Salween Rivers descend from the Tibetan Plateau into lush valleys. The route takes travelers to the cobbled town of Shaxi, the town of Tacheng along the Yangtze, and the Meili Snow Mountain range, a sub-range of the Hengduan Mountains, which marks the boundary between Tibet and Yunnan. The journey ends in Shangri-La, home of the largest Tibetan monastery in Yunnan. Accommodation along the way is in Songtsam lodges, which are based on traditional Tibetan homes. Rates range from $6,872 to $9,592. In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
U.S.   Scenes From the Harlem Building Collapse. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Video Scenes From the Harlem Building Collapse Mar. 12, 2014 | 0:14 Multiple fatalities have been reported in the collapse. Show More PlaylistUp Next in Video Next → Op-Docs: Season 5 9:23 I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked   Video1:08 Hitting all the Right Notes Op-Docs: Season 5 13:33 Manufacturing China’s Future Op-Docs: Season 5 6:05 Fashion vs. Art   Video0:56 Excerpt: ‘The Father’   Video0:33 Excerpt: ‘Exit Strategy’ Op-Docs: Season 5 7:19 A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race   Video1:58 Excerpt: ‘Antlia Pneumatica’   News Clips: Europe1:20 Officials React to Panama Papers   News Clips: Europe3:47 Mossack Fonseca on Data Leak © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Business   Singapore Government Firm Pursues Buyout of Olam International. Advertisement HONG KONG — Olam International, a Singapore agricultural commodities company that has been targeted by the short seller Carson C. Block, said on Friday that it had received a cash buyout offer led by a Singapore government investment firm valuing it at more than $4 billion. Temasek Holdings, the Singapore government investor, is leading a consortium of investors that already controls 52.5 percent of Olam. The buyout group is offering to pay 2.23 Singapore dollars, or $1.76, for each share they do not already own — a premium of about 12 percent to where the stock last traded. The deal values Olam at 5.3 billion dollars and the buyout consortium, which in addition to Temasek included a group of Olam’s founding shareholders and senior management, will have to pay 2.5 billion dollars for the shares they do not already own. In late 2012, Mr. Block’s firm, Muddy Waters Research, placed a bet that Olam’s shares would fall and launched a high-profile attack on the Singapore firm, likening it to Enron and saying it was at risk of collapsing. Olam mounted a vocal defense of itself and its accounting measures, which Mr. Block had targeted, and responded by suing in the Singaporean courts. The suit was later withdrawn. Olam’s shares rose only slightly after Temasek’s offer was announced Friday and were trading at about 2 dollars apiece. That was near their highest level in a year, and more than 10 percent above where Olam’s shares were trading in November 2012, when Mr. Block announced his bet against the stock. David Heng, a director of the Temasek unit leading the buyout bid, said that, if successful, they intend to maintain Olam’s Singapore listing. The bidders “share a common investment philosophy to invest and build for the long term,” Mr. Heng said. “We believe a successful offer will provide Olam with a stronger and more stable shareholder base to support Olam’s strategy and business model,” he added. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   Image of the Day: March 13. Advertisement   India’s national elections began April 7 and will continue on nine separate dates until May 12, with results expected to be announced on May 16. The vote is the world’s largest, with 814 million eligible voters set to choose 543 members of the lower house of Parliament. The other two seats will be appointed by the president. This election is widely considered to be India’s most consequential since 1977. India Ink will be moving to the World page of The New York Times. Read more… A memorial ceremony at the Imphal War Cemetery in Manipur to honor the soldiers who died during World War II.Read more… The newly elected prime minister reaches out to the public in a blog post about his first 30 days in office.Read more… Newborns whose mothers are unable to breastfeed are given stored breast milk to protect them from potentially life-threatening infection.Read more… In the final stage of a long decline, Hindustan Motors announced in May that it would suspend production of the Ambassador, a car that was once synonymous with style and status.Read more… This report on India from the journalists of The New York Times and a pool of talented writers in India and beyond provides unbiased, authoritative reporting on the country and its place in the world. India Ink also strives to be a virtual meeting point for discussion of this complex, fast-changing democracy – its politics, economy, culture and everyday life. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Home   Brown Is the New Green. Advertisement Advertisement In the Garden By STEVEN KURUTZ MARCH 12, 2014 Yolanda Muñoz was leading a double life, water-wise. As an accountant for the Monterey Peninsula Water Management District, in Monterey, Calif., Ms. Muñoz heard grim predictions of water shortages and rationing as the state’s continuing drought intensified. But each night, she returned to her home in an older neighborhood on the peninsula, which had a lawn so large and lush she and her husband, Ed, put in a bench. “We had a beautiful parklike setting,” Ms. Muñoz said. “It had a lot of curb appeal. I hated to give up the lawn.” Still, it seemed like the only responsible thing to do. How could she continue to justify this profligate use of water in the face of such widespread shortages? Contemplating life without a lawn, she moved through the stages of grief, from anger (“I want this lawn!”) to bargaining (“We thought about doing a design where half the lawn would be saved and half ripped out, like a kidney shape”) to depression (“I felt it was kind of hypocritical of me”) and finally to acceptance (“We contacted Hill and Dale,” a local landscaping company). Four months ago, Ms. Muñoz replaced her guilty pasture with a mix of drought-tolerant plants and non-thirsty boulders and gravel. In place of the daily sprinkler rinse, she now has a water-conserving drip irrigation system. She is slowly adjusting to the native look, she said, scattering wildflower seeds that will sprout this spring. Advertisement With rainfall at below-normal levels for several years, and streams dry and reservoirs critically low, particularly in northern areas — even after the storms at the end of last month — many Californians are facing the reality that in the arid West the well-manicured lawn is no longer realistic, or even possible. Some cities have tightly restricted water use; others have raised usage rates to levels that make grass a luxury item. As for what constitutes a suitable alternative to the lawn, opinions abound. The Seaside Garden Center, on the Monterey Peninsula, recently held a workshop on artificial turf. Chuck Ingels, a horticulture adviser at the University of California Cooperative Extension, in Sacramento, has experimented with meadow-like buffalo grass and dune sedge. And one Oakland couple is starting a neighborhood competition next month to promote replacing the lawn with vegetable gardens and native plants. Lorena Gonzalez, an assemblywoman whose district includes southern San Diego, believes “brown is beautiful,” as she put it, and has proposed a bill to allow residents of homeowners’ associations to put in drought landscaping or artificial turf or stop watering their grass without incurring fines. Meanwhile, in Beverly Hills and other affluent Southern California communities, bright-green, golf-course-plush, triple-fescue lawns remain as ubiquitous as the teams of gardeners required to tend them. • In true California fashion, the garden hose (or, more precisely, what comes out of it) has lately taken on a mystical bent. This weekend, Paola Berthoin, an artist, will be a leader of a retreat to explore the sacred nature of water. Participants will visit the Hastings Natural History Reserve in Carmel Valley, with its brittle, moisture-starved underbrush, and, among other activities, explore in a journal humankind’s connection to water. “We thought this was the best way to push the message out there that we are water,” Ms. Berthoin said. At her home in Carmel Valley, Ms. Berthoin’s water concerns are more practical. Though she has installed drought-tolerant and native-plant landscaping and seven tanks to collect rainwater, she worries about the two ponds on her seven-acre property. “I don’t know what’s going to happen with the ponds,” she said. “They’re not getting what they need.” Advertisement The recent storms across the state aren’t likely to squelch the soul-searching over proper drought landscaping, said Mitsugu Mori, the owner of the Seaside Garden Center. “Even if it rained every single day until April,” Mr. Mori said, “we don’t have enough water.” Grass has slowly been disappearing from California yards for several years, especially in cities that offer rebates to encourage homeowners to uproot (Ms. Muñoz paid for part of her lawn conversion this way). Menlo Park, for instance, has a Lawn Be Gone program that gives homeowners up to $3,000 if they convert their grass lawns to water-efficient landscapes. But the drought has sped up changes to the landscape, as homeowners opt for more eco-friendly, cost-saving options. Kathleen Brenzel, the garden editor of Sunset magazine, who lives in Menlo Park, said several of her neighbors have recently pulled up their lawns, planting meadows or succulents instead. “I’ve seen blends of shrubs that bloom in spring and ornamental grasses,” Ms. Brenzel said. “They catch the sunlight in their wispy blades.” Ms. Brenzel, who has a native plant garden at her house, featured a section on drought landscaping in the “Sunset Western Garden Book of Landscaping,” out last month, which she edited. “Streamscaping,” one of the techniques the book spotlights, is a favorite of Christine Watten, a designer at Hill and Dale Landscapes, the firm that converted Ms. Muñoz’s yard. “We do a lot of dry stream beds with rock,” Ms. Watten said. “It’s like an Arroyo Seco look. It gives dimensionality to the garden, focal points.” Advertisement Ms. Watten also likes native ground covers like coast buckwheats and low-growing manzanitas, which have an expansive green look. What’s happening as a result of the water shortage, Ms. Brenzel said, “is that front lawns are getting more interesting, and saving water at the same time.” • How interesting front yards become, however, depends largely on what is seen as acceptable landscaping. And even in the midst of a drought of biblical proportions, longstanding ideas hold sway. Advertisement When Cory Wechsler and her partner, Alicia Gilbreath, decided to start a water-saving competition in their Oakland neighborhood, announcing in an email last month that “a brown lawn is the new cool,” they were surprised by the reaction. The couple had led by example: in the front yard of their duplex they planted a vegetable garden and fruit trees, and added another vegetable patch and a chicken coop in the back. What grass remained had gone unwatered for more than a year. “You just have this brown piece of land,” Ms. Wechsler said. “With a little rain, it’s almost as green as anyone else’s lawn.” But their neighbors showed little enthusiasm for letting their own lawns go brown, she said. “Instead of getting excited, people felt like we were attacking their green lawns,” she said. “I do think people place value in the idea that something is healthy when it’s green, and when it’s brown, it’s not so.” The couple have since reframed the competition, downplaying the brown-lawn aspect and focusing instead on other ways of decreasing water use, from installing a gray-water system to planting drought-tolerant flowers and herbs like rosemary. “There’s no judgment,” Ms. Wechsler said. “Let’s just talk about the decisions each of us are willing to make.” • Soon, though, homeowners with a traditional green lawn may not have a choice. An average of 50 to 60 percent of a household’s water consumption goes to outdoor use, which includes the landscape, said Mr. Ingels, the horticulture adviser. He envisions a future in which lawns go dormant in winter, and possibly even in summer, if watering is not allowed. “The water bills are going up,” Mr. Ingels said. “I think we’re going to start seeing more and more people opt for a brown lawn. I think it could become more traditional.” In Southern California, where water reserves are in (marginally) greater supply than in the northern part of the state, many homeowners have not yet reached a lawn reckoning, said Peter Eberhard, a designer with the Los Angeles firm GDS Designs. Advertisement “We’re not at that point in the ’70s when people are draining their pools and in panic mode,” Mr. Eberhard said. “The trend here is about reducing the size of the lawn.” He has torn up plenty of grass in the last few years, but that was motivated less by his clients’ desire to conserve water, he said, than their requests for “outdoor rooms” focused around barbecue pits, kitchens and entertaining areas.   “People want to use their outside areas as an exterior house,” he said. “That’s a huge feature in almost every house we do now.” Tine Nilsen wanted a similar kind of hardscape at her house in the Mar Vista section of Los Angeles, and over a year ago hired Mr. Eberhard’s firm. But she was concerned that removing the grass would create a barren-looking landscape. “I wanted a modern feel and low maintenance,” Ms. Nilsen said. “What I didn’t want was for it to feel very desert-y.” Mr. Eberhard used granite and mulch with new hedging and minimal low-water plants in the backyard, and in the front yard planted beds of succulents that are hand-watered periodically and native low-water shrubs, along with a few trees. “The little bushes are very lush and green,” Ms. Nilsen said. “But not so heavy that they cover everything.” And her new landscaping, which is fed by a drip irrigation system, consumes a quarter of the water her lawn did, she said. Despite the drought, few people in Ms. Nilsen’s neighborhood have followed suit. Not yet, anyway. Californians have a complicated, ambivalent relationship with water and, like much of the rest of America, a deep-seated allegiance to their grass lawns. If Ms. Nilsen needs any proof of that, all she has to do is step outside in the morning and look up and down her street, where the sprinklers are all working furiously at keeping her neighbors’ grass green. ■ Going Brown With summer on its way, and tighter water restrictions likely, more Californians may soon decide that grass isn’t green enough, and opt instead for a different kind of landscape. Here are a few basics for installing a drought-tolerant garden. Advertisement WHEN TO UPROOT Even drought-tolerant plants require water to get established. If there is mandatory rationing, it may be best to let the lawn go brown and wait until fall, said Kathleen Brenzel, garden editor of Sunset magazine. Putting down newspaper around the edges and topping it with mulch will kill the lawn after three to four months. “That’s a summer project, something you can do to prep for fall,” Ms. Brenzel said. COST To replace grass with drought-tolerant plants and inexpensive hardscaping usually runs $10 to $12 a square foot, said Tim Hill, an owner of Hill and Dale Landscapes in Monterey, Calif. More-elaborate plantings or masonry work will raise the price. Mr. Hill suggested avoiding the “instant look” and planting less. It may take a few years for the yard to fill out, but it will bring costs down. Synthetic grass is another option. Marianna Mori, of the Seaside Garden Center on the Monterey Peninsula, said her company charges $14 a square foot, which includes installation. MAINTENANCE The amount of watering required should be significantly reduced — to one to three days a week, maximum, for drought-tolerant or native plants, down from three to four days a week for a typical lawn, said Peter Eberhard of GDS Designs in Los Angeles. And “it can even be less depending on the plant selection,” he said. An article last Thursday about homeowners in California who are switching away from traditional lawns because of a continuing drought described incorrectly Hill and Dale, which installed drought-resistant plants for a homeowner. It is a landscaping company, not a landscape architecture firm. A version of this article appears in print on March 13, 2014, on page D1 of the New York edition with the headline: Brown Is the New Green. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe See More » Go to Home Page »
Movies   This Week’s Movies. Channels & Shows Home Search Culture Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos The ultimate film lover’s guide: The Times critics A.O. Scott, Manohla Dargis and Stephen Holden offer their picks for the week’s best movies, from blockbusters to hidden gems. Recent Episodes in This Week’s Movies This Week’s Movies Culture 3:14 This Week’s Movies | April 8, 2016 This Week’s Movies Culture 3:34 This Week’s Movies | April 1, 2016 This Week’s Movies Culture 3:20 This Week’s Movies | March 25, 2016 This Week’s Movies Culture 3:33 This Week’s Movies: March 18, 2016 This Week’s Movies Culture 3:07 This Week’s Movies | March 11, 2016 This Week’s Movies Culture 3:03 This Week’s Movies | March 4, 2016 This Week’s Movies Culture 3:15 This Week’s Movies | Feb. 26, 2016 This Week’s Movies Culture 3:19 This Week’s Movies | Feb. 19, 2016 This Week’s Movies Culture 3:11 This Week’s Movies | Feb. 12, 2016 Show more videos from This Week’s Movies Most Popular 1 Opinion Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics 2 U.S. Obama Delivers Howard’s Commencement 3 Fashion & Style Bill Cunningham | Garden Party 4 Science Why It’s Hard to Keep the Pounds Off 5 U.S. How Will Obama Spend His Retirement? 6 World The Killing of Farkhunda 7 Science Parrots: The Highlight Reel 8 Opinion A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race 9 Health In Love and Loss 10 Food How to Cut Up a Whole Chicken © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Science   To Keep Teenagers Alert, Schools Let Them Sleep In Sign Up for the Running Email. Advertisement   COLUMBIA, Mo. – Jilly Dos Santos really did try to get to school on time. She set three successive alarms on her phone. Skipped breakfast. Hastily applied makeup while her fuming father drove. But last year she rarely made it into the frantic scrum at the doors of Rock Bridge High School here by the first bell, at 7:50 a.m. Then she heard that the school board was about to make the day start even earlier, at 7:20 a.m. “I thought, if that happens, I will die,” recalled Jilly, 17. “I will drop out of school!” That was when the sleep-deprived teenager turned into a sleep activist. She was determined to convince the board of a truth she knew in the core of her tired, lanky body: Teenagers are developmentally driven to be late to bed, late to rise. Could the board realign the first bell with that biological reality? The sputtering, nearly 20-year movement to start high schools later has recently gained momentum in communities like this one, as hundreds of schools in dozens of districts across the country have bowed to the accumulating research on the adolescent body clock. In just the last two years, high schools in Long Beach, Calif.; Stillwater, Okla.; Decatur, Ga.;, and Glens Falls, N.Y., have pushed back their first bells, joining early adopters in Connecticut, North Carolina, Kentucky and Minnesota. The Seattle school board will vote this month on whether to pursue the issue. The superintendent of Montgomery County, Md., supports the shift, and the school board for Fairfax County, Va., is working with consultants to develop options for starts after 8 a.m. New evidence suggests that later high school starts have widespread benefits. Researchers at the University of Minnesota, funded by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, studied eight high schools in three states before and after they moved to later start times in recent years. In results released Wednesday they found that the later a school’s start time, the better off the students were on many measures, including mental health, car crash rates, attendance and, in some schools, grades and standardized test scores. Dr. Elizabeth Miller, chief of adolescent medicine at Children’s Hospital of Pittsburgh, who was not involved in the research, noted that the study was not a randomized controlled trial, which would have compared schools that had changed times with similar schools that had not. But she said its methods were pragmatic and its findings promising. “Even schools with limited resources can make this one policy change with what appears to be benefits for their students,” Dr. Miller said. Researchers have found that during adolescence, as hormones surge and the brain develops, teenagers who regularly sleep eight to nine hours a night learn better and are less likely to be tardy, get in fights or sustain athletic injuries. Sleeping well can also help moderate their tendency toward impulsive or risky decision-making. During puberty, teenagers have a later release of the “sleep” hormone melatonin, which means they tend not to feel drowsy until around 11 p.m. That inclination can be further delayed by the stimulating blue light from electronic devices, which tricks the brain into sensing wakeful daylight, slowing the release of melatonin and the onset of sleep. The Minnesota study noted that 88 percent of the students kept a cellphone in their bedroom. But many parents, and some students, object to shifting the start of the day later. They say doing so makes sports practices end late, jeopardizes student jobs, bites into time for homework and extracurricular activities, and upsets the morning routine for working parents and younger children. At heart, though, experts say, the resistance is driven by skepticism about the primacy of sleep. “It’s still a badge of honor to get five hours of sleep,” said Dr. Judith Owens, a sleep expert at the Children’s National Medical Center in Washington. “It supposedly means you’re working harder, and that’s a good thing. So there has to be a cultural shift around sleep.” Last January, Jilly decided she would try to make that change happen in the Columbia school district, which sprawls across 300 square miles of flatland, with 18,000 students and 458 bus routes. But before she could make the case for a later bell, she had to show why an earlier one just would not do. She got the idea in her team-taught Advanced Placement world history class, which explores the role of leadership. Students were urged to find a contemporary topic that ignited their passion. One morning, the teachers mentioned that a school board committee had recommended an earlier start time to solve logistical problems in scheduling bus routes. The issue would be discussed at a school board hearing in five days. If you do not like it, the teachers said, do something. Jilly did the ugly math: A first bell at 7:20 a.m. meant she would have to wake up at 6 a.m. She had found her passion. She seemed an unlikely choice to halt what was almost a done deal. She was just a sophomore, and did not particularly relish conflict. But Jilly, the youngest of seven children, had learned to be independent early on: Her mother died when she was 9. And she is energetic and forthright. That year, she had interned on a voter turnout drive for Missouri Democrats, volunteered in a French-immersion prekindergarten class, written for the student newspaper, worked at a fast-food pizza restaurant and maintained an A average in French, Spanish and Latin. “It’s about time management,” she explained one recent afternoon, curled up in an armchair at home. That Wednesday, she pulled an all-nighter. She created a Facebook page and set up a Twitter account, alerting hundreds of students about the school board meeting: “Be there to have a say in your school district’s decisions on school start times!” She then got in touch with Start School Later, a nonprofit group that provided her with scientific ammunition. She recruited friends and divided up sleep-research topics. With a blast of emails, she tried to enlist the help of every high school teacher in the district. She started an online petition. The students she organized made hundreds of posters and fliers, and posted advice on Twitter: “If you are going to be attending the board meeting tomorrow we recommend that you dress up!” The testy school board meeting that Monday was packed. Jilly, wearing a demure, ruffled white blouse and skirt, addressed the board, blinking owl-like. The dignitaries’ faces were a blur to her because while nervously rubbing her eyes, she had removed her contact lenses. But she spoke coolly about the adolescent sleep cycle: “You know, kids don’t want to get up,” she said. “I know I don’t. Biologically, we’ve looked into that.” The board heatedly debated the issue and decided against the earlier start time. The next day Jilly turned to campaigning for a later start time, joining a movement that has been gaining support. A 2011 report by the Brookings Institution recommended later start times for high schools, and last summer Arne Duncan, the secretary of education, posted his endorsement of the idea on Twitter.   Should high schools adjust their start times out of concern for students’ health? How would any changes impact your family’s schedule? Join in the discussion.    The University of Minnesota study tracked 9,000 high school students in five districts in Colorado, Wyoming and Minnesota before and after schools shifted start times. In those that originally started at 7:30 a.m., only a third of students said they were able to get eight or more hours of sleep. Students who got less than that reported significantly more symptoms of depression, and greater use of caffeine, alcohol and illegal drugs than better-rested peers. “It’s biological — the mental health outcomes were identical from inner-city kids and affluent kids,” said Kyla Wahlstrom, a professor of educational research at the University of Minnesota and the lead author of the study. In schools that now start at 8:35 a.m., nearly 60 percent of students reported getting eight hours of sleep nightly. In 2012, the high school in Jackson, Wyo., moved the first bell to 8:55 a.m. from 7:35 a.m. During that academic year, car crashes by drivers 16 to 18 years old dropped to seven from 23 the year before. Academic results improved, though not across the board. After high schools in the South Washington County district, outside Minneapolis, switched to an 8:35 a.m. start, grades in some first- and third-period classes rose between half a point and a full grade point. And the study found that composite scores on national tests such as the ACT rose significantly in two of the five districts. Many researchers say that quality sleep directly affects learning because people store new facts during deep-sleep cycles. During the rapid-eye-movement phases, the brain is wildly active, sorting and categorizing the day’s data. The more sleep a teenager gets, the better the information is absorbed. “Without enough sleep,” said Jessica Payne, a sleep researcher and assistant professor of psychology at the University of Notre Dame, “teenagers are losing the ability not only to solidify information but to transform and restructure it, extracting inferences and insights into problems.” Last February, the school board in Columbia met to consider later start times. “It is really reassuring to know that students can have a say in the matter,” Jilly told them. “So thank you, guys, for that.” The moment of decision arrived at the board’s next meeting in March. Jilly sat in the front row, posting on Twitter, and addressed the board one last time. “I know it’s not the most conventional thing and it’s going to get some pushback,” she said, referring to the later time. “But it is the right decision.” The board voted, 6 to 1, to push back the high school start time to 9 a.m. “Jilly kicked it over the edge for us,” said Chris Belcher, the superintendent. It is now seven months into the new normal. At Rock Bridge High School, the later end to the day, at 4:05 p.m., is problematic for some, including athletes who often miss the last period to make their away games. “After doing homework, it gets to be 11:30 p.m. pretty quickly,” said Brayden Parker, a senior varsity football player. “I would prefer to get home by dark and have more time to chill out.” The high schools in the district have tried to adjust, for example by adding Wi-Fi access to buses so athletes can do homework on the road. Some classes meet only one or two days a week, and are supplemented with online instruction. More sports practices and clubs convene before school. Some parents and first-period teachers are seeing a payoff in students who are more rested and alert. At 7:45 a.m. on a recent school day, Rock Bridge High, a long, one-story building with skylights and wide hallways, was sun-drenched and almost silent. Then, like an orchestra tuning up, students gradually started arriving, some for debate club and choir, others to meet in the cafeteria for breakfast and gossip. Laughter crackled across the lobby, as buses dropped off more students, and others drifted in from the parking lots. The growing crowds could almost be described as civilized. At 8:53 a.m., Jilly burst through the north entrance door, long hair uncombed and flyaway, wearing no makeup, lugging her backpack. “Even when I am late to school now,” she said, dashing down a corridor to make that 8:55 bell, “it’s only by three or four minutes.” A version of this article appears in print on 03/14/2014, on page A1 of the NewYork edition with the headline: To Keep Teenagers Alert, Schools Start to Let Them Sleep In. Your health questions answered by Times journalists and experts. Your Questions | All » Get Well's Running email for practical tips, expert advice, exclusive content and a bit of motivation delivered to your inbox every week to help you on your running journey. Coming soon. How much do you know about the amazing things that go on in your gut? Take our quiz to find out about the creepy, crawly critters living in your home. What surface is the most friendly to the flu virus? Where’s the best place to stand when you’re talking to a sick person? How does sleep affect health, relationships and well-being? The “Reading the Mind in the Eyes Test” measures ability to understand others’ emotional states. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   Americans Win in Dance at Junior Figure Skating Championships. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content Skip to navigation View mobile version The New York Times Sports|Americans Win in Dance at Junior Figure Skating Championships Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go http://nyti.ms/1fxjsgq Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Supported by Sports | Sports Briefing | Figure Skating Americans Win in Dance at Junior Figure Skating Championships By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 13, 2014 Continue reading the main story Share This Page Continue reading the main story The Americans Kaitlin Hawayek and Jean-Luc Baker won the short dance with a personal best score of 66.73 points at the world junior figure skating championships in Sofia, Bulgaria. They upset the junior Grand Prix final champions Anna Yanovskaya and Sergey Mozgov of Russia, who had 63.80 points. Another American couple, Lorraine McNamara and Quinn Carpenter, stood third with 58.65 points. Continue reading the main story What's Next Loading... Go to Home Page » Site Index The New York Times Site Index Navigation News World U.S. Politics N.Y. Business Tech Science Health Sports Education Obituaries Today's Paper Corrections Opinion Today's Opinion Op-Ed Columnists Editorials Contributing Writers Op-Ed Contributors Opinionator Letters Sunday Review Taking Note Room for Debate Public Editor Video: Opinion Arts Today's Arts Art & Design ArtsBeat Books Dance Movies Music N.Y.C. Events Guide Television Theater Video: Arts Living Automobiles Crossword Food Education Fashion & Style Health Jobs Magazine N.Y.C. Events Guide Real Estate T Magazine Travel Weddings & Celebrations Listings & More Classifieds Tools & Services Times Topics Public Editor N.Y.C. Events Guide Blogs Multimedia Photography Video NYT Store Times Journeys Subscribe Manage My Account Subscribe Subscribe Times Insider Home Delivery Digital Subscriptions NYT Opinion Crossword Email Newsletters Alerts Gift Subscriptions Corporate Subscriptions Education Rate Mobile Applications Replica Edition International New York Times Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Travel   A Wow of a Water Slide. Advertisement Hold on to your bikini straps. Schlitterbahn, the Texas water park company, is opening its newest location in Kansas City, Kan., this spring, featuring what it claims will be the tallest and fastest water slide in the world. Although the slide’s exact height has not yet been revealed, the company has made statements claiming that Verrückt, which means “insane” in German, is taller than the Statue of Liberty, toes to torch, and that it is sure to surpass the current record holder, Beach Park’s “Insano” in Fortaleza, Brazil, which drops riders 135 feet at speeds up to 65 miles per hour. Verrückt requires the use of a four-person raft, which, after the initial drop, estimated to be 17 stories, will be propelled up another five-story hill before the final plunge. A net tunnel will cover parts of the slide, including the initial drop, for safety reasons. “We have always been family friendly, but this will attract those adrenaline junkies who are always looking for that next biggest, coolest thrill,” Layne Pitcher, Schlitterbahn’s director of marketing and sales, told The Kansas City Star. An official Guinness World Record measuring event will take place in April. The slide, along with the rest of the park, opens on May 23. Until then, thrill seekers can check out a simulated ride in a video released by the park, complete with a soundtrack of foreboding choral chants. Take a look and let us know if you think the thrill will be worth the 264-step climb. For this reporter, the swim-up refreshment bar in the park’s giant hot tub should prove ample excitement. In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
U.S.   Obama Seeks Expansion of Overtime Pay. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos U.S. Obama Seeks Expansion of Overtime Pay Mar. 13, 2014 | 0:55 The president said he directed the Department of Labor to revise federal rules to make more workers eligible for overtime pay. Show More PlaylistUp Next in U.S. Next →   Business1:31 Fiat Chief on New Innovation Ideas   U.S. & Politics1:27 Obama Introduces New Tax Rules   U.S. & Politics0:28 Suspect Arrested in Maryland Shootings   U.S. & Politics1:01 Shooting at Maryland Mall   U.S. & Politics1:39 Obama on Trump’s Campaign   U.S.0:43 U.S. Concerned About Truce in Syria   U.S. & Politics0:33 Lawmaker's Removal Adds to Brazil's Turmoil   U.S.1:37 Gator Wrestling (Barefoot) in Colorado   U.S. & Politics1:06 Ban on Selling E-Cigarettes to Minors   U.S.0:22 Obama, Dancing With the Star (Wars) © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Business   Song of Exultation. Advertisement By Ed Sessa Mar 15, 2014 The New York Times Crossword is available through subscription only. SATURDAY’S PUZZLE — Ladles and gentlemints, we have a winner. Ed Sessa has actually included a pop culture/social media reference in his puzzle that I didn’t know. Do you know how hard that is? It’s my job to stay current on these things, but somehow the concept of TWITTER JAIL has eluded me thus far. Maybe it’s because I am way too verbose for Twitter, which limits users to 140 characters a tweet (I exceed that when ordering lunch). Apparently, you get put in TWITTER JAIL if you send out more than 100 tweets an hour or more than 1,000 tweets a day. While you can still see what others are posting, your ability to continue posting is curtailed until such time as you promise to go outside and get some sun already. Anyway, I thought Mr. Sessa’s puzzle was loads of fun, and challenging to boot. KISSYFACE! Clued as “Indication that one wants to get smacked.” I love that. And that’s crossed by the beautiful word ELYSIAN, which as far as I’m concerned, is outstanding in its field. I also loved BANANA PEEL, TIP JAR, BODACIOUS, BRAIN FREEZE, HUMAN RACE and APPLE SAUCE. What fun. And the cluing is pretty awesome, too. “Swiss bank depositor” is a grand misdirection; instead of banking, we need to think about the river AARE. “Uplifting company” is a hint about the OTIS Elevator Company. “A lot of the time?” is definitely EONS. “Less likely to have waffles” is a great clue for SURER. There’s more, but I’ll leave you to discover them on your own. Let’s chat with Mr. Sessa: With this puzzle there were four “seed” words which I wanted to keep if possible, one in each section: HOLMESIAN, leading off the puzzle in the NW, reminded me of the similarly eponymous KAFKAESQUE which had been used in the Los Angeles Times, BRAINFREEZE in the NE which would allow for a clue take-off on “cold comfort,” BODACIOUS in the SE, a portmanteau word (“bold” and “audacious”), and TWITTER JAIL in the SW. I wasn’t sure this last entry would fly, and the puzzle was only provisionally accepted last June, as Will said he wanted to see if the phrase had “staying power.” I hope solvers have some challenges and fun with this one. So, yes, I really enjoyed this one and I learned how to stay out of TWITTER JAIL. What more could you want from your Saturday puzzle? Your thoughts? Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. David Kahn puts us through the wringer.Read more… Emily Cox and Henry Rathvon offer us a challenging cryptic crossword puzzle.Read more… A place for solvers to discuss and ask questions about the “A Little Variety” suite of puzzles.Read more… Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Food   Melissa Clark. Channels & Shows Home Search Food Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos The author and cook Melissa Clark takes you into her kitchen to show you how easy it can be to make exquisite and delicious meals. Recent Episodes in Melissa Clark Melissa Clark Food 2:58 Chocolate Babka Melissa Clark Food 2:38 Baked Fish and Chips Melissa Clark Food 3:03 Chocolate Pavlova with Chocolate Mousse Melissa Clark Food 2:17 Alfajores Melissa Clark Food 1:42 Golden Leek and Potato Soup Melissa Clark Food 2:28 Chocolate Peppermint Bars Melissa Clark Food 1:60 Cheesy Pasta Bake Melissa Clark Food 3:03 Japanese Chicken and Root Vegetable Stew Melissa Clark Food 2:38 Turkish Burned Milk Pudding Show more videos from Melissa Clark Most Popular 1 Opinion Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics 2 U.S. Obama Delivers Howard’s Commencement 3 Fashion & Style Bill Cunningham | Garden Party 4 Science Why It’s Hard to Keep the Pounds Off 5 U.S. How Will Obama Spend His Retirement? 6 World The Killing of Farkhunda 7 Science Parrots: The Highlight Reel 8 Opinion A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race 9 Health In Love and Loss 10 Food How to Cut Up a Whole Chicken © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Foreign   Image of the Day: March 14. Advertisement   India’s national elections began April 7 and will continue on nine separate dates until May 12, with results expected to be announced on May 16. The vote is the world’s largest, with 814 million eligible voters set to choose 543 members of the lower house of Parliament. The other two seats will be appointed by the president. This election is widely considered to be India’s most consequential since 1977. India Ink will be moving to the World page of The New York Times. Read more… A memorial ceremony at the Imphal War Cemetery in Manipur to honor the soldiers who died during World War II.Read more… The newly elected prime minister reaches out to the public in a blog post about his first 30 days in office.Read more… Newborns whose mothers are unable to breastfeed are given stored breast milk to protect them from potentially life-threatening infection.Read more… In the final stage of a long decline, Hindustan Motors announced in May that it would suspend production of the Ambassador, a car that was once synonymous with style and status.Read more… This report on India from the journalists of The New York Times and a pool of talented writers in India and beyond provides unbiased, authoritative reporting on the country and its place in the world. India Ink also strives to be a virtual meeting point for discussion of this complex, fast-changing democracy – its politics, economy, culture and everyday life. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Health   The Weekly Health Quiz. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content The New York Times Health|The Weekly Health Quiz Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go http://nyti.ms/1fui35H Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Health The Weekly Health Quiz in the news: concussions, fitness trackers and sleep. Test your knowledge of this week’s health news. MARCH 13, 2014 Toby Bilanow/The New York Times Related Multimedia The Weekly Health Quiz MARCH 6, 2014 Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Movies   Movie Review: 'Le Week-End'. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Movies Movie Review: 'Le Week-End' By Robin Lindsay | Mar. 14, 2014 | 1:15 The Times critic A. O. Scott reviews "Le Week-End." Show More PlaylistUp Next in Movies Next → Anatomy of a Scene Culture2:13 Anatomy of a Scene | ‘Midnight Special’ This Week’s Movies Culture3:33 This Week’s Movies: March 18, 2016 Anatomy of a Scene Culture3:51 Anatomy of a Scene | ‘Krisha’ This Week’s Movies Culture3:28 This Week’s Movies | May 6, 2016 This Week’s Movies Culture3:28 This Week’s Movies | April 29, 2016 Anatomy of a Scene Culture2:41 Anatomy | ‘The Man Who Knew Infinity’   Culture3:41 There Is No Escaping Shakespeare This Week’s Movies Culture3:25 This Week’s Movies | April 22, 2016 Anatomy of a Scene Culture2:48 Anatomy of a Scene | ‘The Meddler’ This Week’s Movies Culture3:28 This Week’s Movies | April 15, 2016 © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Politics   Mitch McConnell Is Not as Vulnerable as He Seems. Advertisement Advertisement By NATE COHNMARCH 13, 2014 WASHINGTON — It has been a dreadful winter for Democrats as red state incumbents struggle to overcome President Obama’s sagging popularity. But there’s one person in particular Democrats still hope to beat: Mitch McConnell, the Senate minority leader. Polls say Mr. McConnell is locked in a dead heat for re-election in Kentucky. Some surveys even show him trailing Alison Lundergan Grimes, his Democratic challenger. But the polls overstate his vulnerability. A McConnell defeat would be all but unprecedented. Mr. McConnell is not only an incumbent senator who represents the party opposed to the White House in a midterm election, but he also comes from a state that opposes the president. Since 1956, only seven senators in these circumstances have lost re-election. The last time was in 1998, when John Edwards defeated Senator Lauch Faircloth in North Carolina. But 2014 is not 1998. Back then, President Bill Clinton’s approval rating was in the mid-60s. Today, President Obama’s ratings are mired in the low 40s. Kentucky is also not North Carolina, which only narrowly voted against Mr. Clinton. Kentucky is an extremely favorable state for a Republican candidate: It voted for Romney and McCain by an average of 25 points to the right of the country. Senate incumbents rarely lose on friendly territory. When they have lost, the state was usually less solidly partisan than what Sen. Mitch McConnell faces in Kentucky. Below, the list of incumbents who have lost in friendly territory when the president represents the opposite party. STATES WHERE REPUBLICAN INCUMBENTS LOST Sen. McConnell’s Kentucky, 2014 PCT. POINTS TO THE RIGHT OF THE COUNTRY IN THE LAST TWO PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS STATE YEAR INCUMBENT North Carolina South Dakota Indiana Wisconsin South Dakota 1998 1962 1962 1962 1996 Lauch Faircloth Joseph Bottum Homer E. Capehart Alexander Wiley Larry Pressler +25 pts. 10 15 +20 pts. STATES WHERE DEMOCRATIC INCUMBENTS LOST PCT. POINTS TO THE LEFT OF THE COUNTRY IN THE LAST TWO PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS STATE YEAR INCUMBENT Kentucky Connecticut Kentucky Delaware Maryland California 1956 1970 1984 1960 1970 1976 Earle Clements Thomas J. Dodd Walter D. Huddleston J. Allen Frear, Jr. Joseph D. Tydings John V. Tunney 5 10 15 +20 pts. From that perspective, there is no precedent for a McConnell defeat. No senator has lost in a state as favorable as Kentucky when the president represents the other party. And it’s not even close: North Carolina, it turns out, is the closest example. States with serious reservations about the incumbent president seem unwilling to dismiss the president’s opponents in the Senate. Very few incumbent senators lose re-election in states as favorable as Kentucky, period. Since 1956, only one incumbent senator has lost re-election in a state more favorable than Kentucky under any circumstance. That senator was Ted Stevens, who was convicted on seven counts of corruption just one week before the 2008 election, in a tough year for Republicans. Despite all of that, he lost by only one percentage point. He is the exception that seems to prove the rule. Advertisement Mr. McConnell, of course, is not a convicted felon. And unlike Mr. Stevens, Mr. McConnell comfortably won re-election in worst-case circumstances in 2008, just one month after shepherding TARP, the bank bailout package, to passage in the Senate. Since then, Mr. Obama has alienated eastern Kentucky’s coal country, traditionally the most Democratic-leaning stretch of the state. Without those voters, it is unclear whether there’s still a path to victory for Democrats seeking federal office. Yet the polls show a close race. So long as that’s true, Ms. Grimes can’t be counted out. Still, most surveys show Ms. Grimes, Kentucky’s secretary of state, polling in the low-to-mid 40s. That’s not bad, but each of the last three Democratic Senate candidates in Kentucky reached 44 percent of the vote. To win, Ms. Grimes needs to make inroads into Kentucky’s Republican-leaning voters, and, so far, it hasn’t happened. Campaigns tend to move partisans toward their respective corners. Campaign advertisements, messages, and even gaffes, emphasize the ideological differences between the candidates and polarize voters along party lines. Mr. McConnell will spend the next eight months reminding voters that he’s the president’s most reliable adversary, and that control of the Senate is at stake. That message seems likely to resonate with Kentucky’s anti-Obama electorate. This article is a preview of The Upshot, a New York Times site dedicated to demystifying politics, economics and other subjects. It will debut on nytimes.com this spring. To learn more, follow David Leonhardt on Facebook and Twitter. You can also follow Nate Cohn, a reporter for The Upshot, on Twitter. Go to Home Page »
Science   Mammography’s Limits, Seldom Understood. Advertisement A sad fact: None of the eight major clinical trials looking at whether regular mammograms reduce a woman’s risk of dying from breast cancer has included women over age 75. Older adults are frequently excluded from trials, a problem for those trying to treat them based on information, not hunches. This helps explain why the United States Preventive Services Task Force says the current evidence is “insufficient” to assess mammography’s value for those over age 75, and why the American Geriatrics Society cautions against it for women with limited life expectancies. Not only may mammograms not help, like any medical procedure, they may also harm. Mammograms can result in false positives that require additional tests, including biopsies, and bring anxiety. The scans may identify small tumors that wouldn’t have caused problems for years — or at all, since older women are far more likely to die from other causes. Yet once a mammogram detects even a non-invasive cancer, “it’s very hard to decide not to be treated,” said Dr. Mara Schonberg, an internist at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center in Boston. Since most women over age 75 still get mammograms, thousands of them undergo unnecessary surgery, radiation and medication every year. What women need, she and several colleagues agreed, is a “decision aid,” a tool that clarifies a medical procedure and its likely results. Once they understand the pros and cons of mammograms, “women can make better decisions based on realistic information about their risks,” she said. Dr. Schonberg, who has investigated breast cancer screening among older women for years, noted that women don’t hear much about the cons.  She and her colleagues decided to put together an 11-page pamphlet, written clearly at a sixth-grade reading level. It points out that doctors don’t know whether mammograms lower mortality in this age group. (Indeed, there is wide disagreement over whether regular mammograms lower mortality in any age group.) The guide estimates that out of 1,000 women over 75, three of those who get mammograms will die of breast cancer and so will four of those who don’t, a tiny difference. Its charts show that heart disease, other cancers, stroke and dementia are far greater threats to elderly women. It even helps women calculate their life expectancy, to see whether a mammogram is likely to extend their lives. Then the researchers tried a small pilot study, asking 45 women aged 75 to 89 who’d had a mammogram within two years to use the pamphlet. Did it help? Maybe. Sort of. Yes, the information did significantly improve their knowledge, results published in the journal JAMA Internal Medicine show. The women scored higher on a true-false test about the benefits and risks of breast cancer screening after they read the pamphlet than they had beforehand. Yes, it did lead to more conversations about the decision with primary care doctors: In the five years before this experiment, patient medical records showed, only 11 percent had had such discussions. In the six months after reading the guide, 53 percent did. And yes, the proportion of this small group who intended to continue screening dropped substantially, especially among those with a calculated life expectancy of nine years or less. In that group, 85 percent had earlier said they intended to get another mammogram; after the guide, 50 percent did. The guide didn’t make a significant difference in the group with a longer life expectancy. Women said they liked the pamphlet and found it useful. Their doctors said so, too. And yet 60 percent of these older women went ahead and got another mammogram within 15 months, including more than half of those with a lower life expectancy. It was tough to persuade women to start getting regular mammograms back in the 1970s, when the American Cancer Society and the former first lady Betty Ford began campaigning for annual screening. Decades later, it’s tough to get older women to stop. Ditto for other cancer screenings — Pap tests, prostate tests, colonoscopies —among both older men and women. These decisions involve more than a risk/reward calculation, clearly. When it comes to mammograms, “women go for reassurance, for affirmation of their health,” Dr. Schonberg said. Her own studies show that “they felt this was the responsible thing to do,” what Dr. Alexia Torke, associate director of the Indiana University Center for Aging Research, has termed “a moral obligation.” Some women don’t recognize that there’s a decision to be made at all. “Radiologists send you an annual reminder card,” Dr. Schonberg said. “You’re just told, ‘go.’” (The Preventive Services Task Force recommendation is every two years, not annually, up to age 74.) Still, this remains an individual decision. Women who see the whole picture and decide to continue with mammograms — Medicare pays for one each year — at least have reached an informed decision. So I hope Dr. Schonberg’s pamphlet gets widely circulated. She’s about to test it with a much larger sample of about 500 women in Massachusetts and North Carolina, then report her findings. And then we’ll publish a link to the guide here, for anyone to use. Paula Span is the author of “When the Time Comes: Families With Aging Parents Share Their Struggles and Solutions.” The blog is ending, but our coverage of caregiving and aging is not. The New Old Age will run as a twice-monthly column by Paula Span on nytimes.com and frequently in Science Times. Read more… At many nursing homes and assisted living places, a resident’s passing may be hardly noted.Read more… Circumstances had changed, and all these documents needed to change, too. Read more… Lifestyle modification prevents Type 2 diabetes even more effectively in the elderly than in middle-aged patients.Read more… Julianne Moore gives a wonderful performance in “Still Alice,” but the film skirts the truth about dementia.Read more… Thanks to the marvels of medical science, our parents are living longer than ever before. Most will spend years dependent on others for the most basic needs. That burden falls to their baby boomer children. The New Old Age blog explored this unprecedented intergenerational challenge. Paula Span will continue to write New Old Age columns twice monthly at nytimes.com/health and the conversation will continue on Twitter (@paula_span) and Facebook. A few medical institutions have opened their doors to patients’ own dogs and cats. Scheduling and medication errors plague patients with Parkinson's. Dementia doesn't respect public stature. Is there life after caregiving, and if so what it is like? Comprehensive reference and special reports about diseases, conditions, tests, injuries and surgeries. Useful information, tools, and links to organizations around the Web. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   After War’s Agony, a Will to Win. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » The New York Times After War’s Agony, a Will to Win Close this slideshow Slide Go to previous slide Go to next slide Andrew Soule of the United States, one of a large contingent of war veterans competing in this year’s Paralympics, finished fifth in the men’s one-kilometer sprint in Sochi, Russia. Read more CreditJames Hill for The New York Times Supported by Loading... 1 of 11 Go to previous slide Go to next slide Share This Slide Show Restart Slide Show More Slide Shows Floating Ideas for America’s Cup This weekend’s America’s Cup World Series race in the Hudson River is preparing Oracle Team U.S.A. for the 2017 America’s Cup in Bermuda. Floating Ideas for America’s Cup Racing Around (and Around and Around) a Track Saying Good-Bye to the Minors A Move Toward the Mainstream Cramped Quarters Burst at the Seams With an N.B.A. Epic Upsets From Coast to Coast And They’re Off Beware the Upsets of March Seton Hall’s Big-Time Player The New York Times
Technology   Snapchat Settlement With F.T.C.. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content The New York Times Technology|Snapchat Settlement With F.T.C. Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go http://nyti.ms/1fRQLNx Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Technology Snapchat Settlement With F.T.C. The mobile messaging service Snapchat settled with the Federal Trade Commission over charges that the service inaccurately claimed that, once sent, messages disappeared. MAY 8, 2014 Related Article Related Multimedia Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Travel   Orient-Express Hotels Gets a New Name. Advertisement Orient-Express Hotels, more than decade old,  and with  45 luxury hotels, as well as trains, safari camps and river cruises in its collection, got a new name this week: The London-based brand is now called Belmond. The purpose of the relaunch, according to president and chief executive John Scott, is to bring more awareness to the group as a single portfolio. (The new name is derived from words for “beautiful” and “world.” ) “When I became C.E.O. in 2012, I realized that travelers associated with our individual properties such as Cipriani in Venice or Copacabana in Rio but didn’t identify with the overall brand,” he said. “We were missing the opportunity for guests to know us as a whole and needed one voice.” The makeover includes new websites for each offering, which have a cleaner and more contemporary look, and, unlike before, when the Orient-Express logo was a small footnote, the Belmond logo will be prominently displayed on the sites’ home pages. Mr. Scott said that the change will be financially advantageous for the company but will also benefit its guests. “We will connect with our customers as a collective and be able to do more to build and manage relationships with them,” he said. Belmond said it has spent $15 million on the initiative, which includes the sites, social media and its first large-scale international advertising campaign in magazines, newspapers and online. In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
U.S.   Obama Welcomes Prime Minister of Ireland. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos News Clips Obama Welcomes Prime Minister of Ireland Mar. 15, 2014 | 1:03 The president met with Prime Minister Enda Kenny to kick off the St. Patrick’s Day holiday. Show More PlaylistUp Next in News Clips Next →   News Clips1:10 Inside Aleppo Hospital Before Attack   News Clips1:01 Sanders Predicts Contested Convention   News Clips1:06 Trump Blasts Cruz for 'Wasting Time'   News Clips4:02 How Will Obama Spend His Retirement?   U.S. & Politics8:22 Best of Obama's Correspondents' Dinner Speech   News Clips: Asia Pacific0:49 Chinese Temple Employs Robot Monk   News Clips: Asia Pacific0:29 U.S. to Heighten Pressure on North Korea   News Clips0:40 Airstrikes Resume in Syria   News Clips0:54 Merkel Welcomes Obama to Germany   Business0:40 Footage of Man in Cake Dispute © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Business   Celebrity Guest Solver Suzanne Whang: It’s Better This Way. Advertisement   By Jeremy Newton Mar 16, 2014 The New York Times Crossword is available through subscription only. SUNDAY’S PUZZLE — Well, I don’t have to say very much today, because Suzanne Whang, stand-up comedian, actress and host of HGTV’s “House Hunters” for 10 years, is going to tell you about her experience solving today’s crossword puzzle. More importantly, you know how I always encourage people to talk about what the puzzle brings out for them? You’re going to read a surprising and very touching twist at the end of Ms. Whang’s write-up, and I promise you that neither of us thought of this when I scheduled her for today’s post. That’s all I’m going to say. I’m just glad things are working out for her, because we need more bright lights like her in the world. When my friend Elayne Boosler told me that she was a celebrity guest crossword solver for The New York Times, I plotzed (Koreans are the Jews of Asia.) I blurted out, “You WERE? What exactly does that MEAN? I want to do that!!” I’ve been in love with crossword puzzles for as long as I can remember. And lately, here’s how it works. Every time I get on an airplane from L.A. to New York City, as soon as I get through security, I go straight to the nearest newsstand and I buy USA Today, The Los Angeles Times, The New York Times and a bottle of water. I head to my gate and then proceed to do what would appear to be an odd ritual to anyone who cares about what’s going on in the world. First, I find the section of each newspaper that has the crossword puzzle. I remove those sections, and I give away the rest. Then I open each section to the page with the crossword puzzle. First, I carefully fold backward at the main vertical seam, then backward at the main horizontal seam, and then I create a new vertical fold so that now all that’s visible is the puzzle itself. Then I put the puzzles in order of increasing difficulty: USA Today, then The Los Angeles Times, then The New York Times. If it’s a Monday, I can sometimes get all three puzzles finished before the plane takes off. If it’s a Saturday, I will most likely not finish the New York Times puzzle by the time I land in New York, and I’m furious that it’s so freakin’ difficult. I use pen. It has to be a Pilot Precise pen, in black, blue or purple. It’s the only pen for me. It gushes with ink. It glides. It makes writing a pleasure. The only problem is that these pens sometimes explode in the airplane, leaking ink everywhere. But I digress. The only exception to my folding ritual is when it’s a Sunday, which means that the holy grail of puzzles is in The New York Times Sunday Magazine. Ahhhh. It’ll be close to the last page. And it’s on smooth magazine paper. And there will be some sort of theme for me to figure out, so it’s a puzzle within a puzzle. And it’s bigger than the other puzzles (21 x 21 instead of 15 x 15). And I love it so. And I don’t want your help until I’ve done everything in my power to solve it on my own. Once, on an airplane, the person sitting next to me just decided to tell me the answer to 7 down. Unsolicited help. Horrifying. I felt so violated, I needed a Silkwood scrub-down. I emailed Deb Amlen, introducing myself, hoping I was enough of a celebrity to be considered for this highest of all honors, pitching myself as if it were more important than anything else I had done in my 25-year show biz career. When I got her email saying that she knew who I was and yes I could be a celebrity guest solver, I squealed with glee. When she gave me a choice of what day of the week I’d like to solve, well, that was easy. Sunday! Most of my friends don’t do crossword puzzles, and they don’t understand my obsession with them. They also don’t understand why I don’t want crossword puzzle books, and I don’t want to do crossword puzzles online. This is a visceral experience that requires pen and paper, and it has to be in a newspaper, not in a book. It’s more special when you’re doing the puzzle in today’s paper. And the puzzles in The New York Times, thanks to Will Shortz, are the most elegant. There is a sweet spot between a clue being too easy and being impossible to figure out, and Mr. Shortz manages to make sure to create that perfect balance. Well, with the exception of Saturdays. Grrr. One of my favorite documentaries is “Wordplay.” Much like a support group meeting, it was wonderful to not feel like such a weirdo for loving crossword puzzles this much. Jon Stewart loves crosswords, too? Yay! When I printed out the Sunday puzzle I’d be solving, the first thing that occurred to me was, “I’m seeing this puzzle before the rest of the world! Wow!” The second thing that occurred to me was, “My father is going to LOVE reading this piece.” I got my father into crossword puzzles many years ago. But I got my love of the English language from him. O.K., let’s get to this puzzle. After wondering about the significance of the title, I notice the four circles in the squares of 1 Across, and the four circles in the squares of 119 Across. What is that? A word within a word? Hmm. I usually begin puzzles by looking through the clues for anything with a fill-in-the-blank. I’m not sure why I do this, but I do. Perhaps in my experience, I’m often able to solve those clues easily. 62 Across, “______ good cheer!” I write in “BE OF.” I write in all capital letters. Not sure why, it’s just what I’ve always done. I wonder why it doesn’t say (two words) in the clue. There was a time when the clues would tell us if the answer was more than one word. I’m mildly annoyed. 117 Across, “The ______ Project” (Fox comedy). MINDY! 2 Down, “______ de la Societe.” I think it’s “ILES”; that’s one of those crossword puzzle answers that I only know from doing crossword puzzles. Like knowing that a jewelry case is an ETUI. 15 Down, “Whack-_____” Well, it’s gotta be “A-MOLE”. 66 Down, “_____ and Thummim (sacred Judaic objects)” Darn you, Jeremy Newton and Will Shortz. Grrrrr. I rarely know world history or ancient terms for anything. Or the Latin words for anything. Now, what’s the theme of this puzzle? 23 Across, “*He bested Leonidas at Thermopylae.” Oh, come ON. Nobody knows that. And why is there an asterisk before the clue? Here are my favorite clues. 1 Down’s “Something dirty kept in a cell?” It took me a while, but I finally realized it was “SEXT.” Fantastic. 57 Down, “Loud beast heard in the theaters”. Huh? Godzilla? King Kong? Those don’t fit. Then I got the across answers that showed me the first two letters of the answer were MG. There’s no word that starts with MG. If it’s a Scottish word, it would be MCG. Then I realize. It’s the MGM LION. Woo hoo! I’m so pleased with myself now. 7 Across, “Touching words?” Eulogy doesn’t fit. And there’s a question mark, so there’s something punny going on. Oh! BRAILLE! Love it. 73 Down: “They’re 18 to 21”. What could that possibly mean? I can’t get past these numbers referring to a person’s age. Then I finally realize it’s referring to the letters of the alphabet. RSTU. I’m in heaven. I get that 31 Across is FOURXFOUR, and that 49 Across is THE WINTERX GAMES, and then I see the clue for 16 Down. It’s the key to this puzzle! In both of these starred clues, the answers contain the letters RX, which means “prescription.” And now I’m on my way. Figuring out the theme to a Sunday puzzle is what I would call a “wordgasm.” As soon as I figure out the theme, I have to leave the house to go to a meeting. I’m in my car, and I notice this license plate right in front of me. PARIS RX. I get chills. I recently married a man whom I’ve been friends with and secretly in love with for 20 years. Turns out he was secretly in love with me, too, and he chose to tell me. We want to go on a honeymoon to Paris, when we can afford it. And then RX, the theme of this puzzle is right after that? Paris prescription, indeed. I get that 1 Across is SICK OF, with SICK being inside the four circles, so I look at the four circles at the bottom right and wonder if those would contain the letters WELL. The clue is “Thrive,” so I write in “DOWELL.” Now the title makes sense. “IT’S BETTER THIS WAY.” We begin with SICK and end with WELL. This theme is poignant for me. In the last eight years, I had breast cancer three times, because like most Asians, I am an overachiever. Yay! The third time it metastasized to Stage 4, and I was given six months to live. But I reversed the disease, reclaimed my health, and am now cancer-free. I used Western medicine, Eastern medicine, holistic, alternative, illegal and revolutionary treatments. I came out of the cancer closet and started asking for (and receiving) help and love. My house became Grand Central Love Station. I felt like Jimmy Stewart at the end of “It’s a Wonderful Life.” I changed my nutrition and started meditating. And now I laugh, I bask in the present moment, and I overflow with gratitude. Every day feels like a bonus round. I wake up so grateful to be alive. I’m not just a survivor, I’m a thriver. And that today I get to be the celebrity guest solver for the New York Times Sunday puzzle is yet another miracle. The only thing that could top this would be for my name to be the answer to a New York Times crossword puzzle clue. In a random house in America: “Hey, sweetie, what’s a 12-letter-word for a crazy Asian?” Wow. That blew me away. Let it never be said that crossword puzzles don’t evoke strong emotions in people. Let’s catch up with the constructor, Jeremy Newton: A puzzle featuring “Rx” as the theme has been a personal constructor vendetta for me. Maybe it’s the lure of the Scrabbly X, or the excitement of getting a theme out that I haven’t seen before, or some unhealthy deep-seated obsession with prescription drugs. My first RX-related submission to The Times was a 15×15 rebus-style puzzle, the second a 21×21 rebus. Both had not enough theme material and some really strained theme entries (Example: RxKBP clued as a chess move. Yikes). Two rejection letters later, I submitted a 15×15 with entries containing RX in the very middle (COLORXEROX, DEERXING, etc), but Will Shortz found it not quite interesting enough. Next, I toyed with a diagonal offset of R/X in the grid. To represent how “Rx” is often hand written or how it traditionally appears on drugstore signs. The horizontal theme entries dropped down one row at the X, then continued along their way. While sort of a neat trick (and “Medicine Dropper” was screaming to be the puzzle title), I thought this gimmick would be too arbitrary for some, and probably too easy to find the R/X locations for other solvers. My final attempt at the RX theme (today’s puzzle) was inspired by the phrase “follow the prescription.” This felt “in the language” enough, and it seemed like a great start for a puzzle directive / theme revealer. From there, I needed something to drive the solver to follow “RX” pairs across the grid. Going from SICK to WELL seemed an appropriate solution. In the end, I was able to wrangle the theme answers into a fairly straight, easy-to-follow RX conga line. As luck would have it (thank you, Crossword Gods), the revealer FOLLOWING THE / PRESCRIPTION found a home in opposite corners by crossing nicely with my center entry, GROUCHO MARX MUSTACHE. I’m superpleased how the hidden trail of RXs turned out. And I’m relieved that my RX vendetta is over. As are we, Mr. Newton. Mr. Newton has a game coming out in two weeks for iPhone and iPad called “Cross Wars” that is free to download and was made with help from his colleagues at Team Chaos. Your thoughts? Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. David Kahn puts us through the wringer.Read more… Emily Cox and Henry Rathvon offer us a challenging cryptic crossword puzzle.Read more… A place for solvers to discuss and ask questions about the “A Little Variety” suite of puzzles.Read more… Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   U.S. Navy Strategists Have a Long History of Finding the Lost. Advertisement Advertisement By BENEDICT CAREYMARCH 14, 2014 The uncertainties surrounding Malaysia Airlines Flight 370’s disappearance are enormous, but naval strategists have been unraveling lost-at-sea mysteries as far back as the U-boat battles of World War II, and perhaps most dramatically in 1968, when an intelligence team found the submarine Scorpion, which sank in the North Atlantic after losing contact under equally baffling circumstances. A United States Navy spokeswoman said that its involvement in the search so far has been in response to requests by the Malaysian government. The destroyer Kidd is patrolling west of the Strait of Malacca, and a P-8 search plane arrived in the area on Friday, but no submarines were involved, she said. Yet it is the Office of Naval Intelligence — and particularly the submarine division — that has refined some of the most creative techniques for finding sunken ships, spent warheads and downed pilots in vast, uncharted waters. Those techniques are now integral to forecasting by the intelligence community, economic prognosticators and the armed services, and will come into play if the Navy is asked to take a central role in the search for Flight 370. “The same approach we used with Scorpion could be applied in this case and should be,” John P. Craven, the former Navy scientist credited with finding the Scorpion, said in a telephone interview. “But you need to begin with the right people.” Advertisement The approach is a kind of crowdsourcing, but not one in which volunteers pored over satellite images, like they have in search of Flight 370. That effort is akin to good Samaritans combing a forest for a lost child without knowing for certain that the child is there. Instead, forecasters draw on expertise from diverse but relevant areas — in the case of finding a submarine, say, submarine command, ocean salvage, and oceanography experts, as well as physicists and engineers. Each would make an educated guess as to where the ship is, based on different scenarios: the sub was attacked; a torpedo activated onboard; a battery exploded. This is how Dr. Craven located the Scorpion. “I knew these guys and I gave probability scores to each scenario they came up with,” Dr. Craven said. The men bet bottles of Chivas Regal to keep matters interesting, and after some statistical analysis, Dr. Craven zeroed in on a point about 400 miles from the Azores, near the Sargasso Sea, according to a detailed account in “Blind Man’s Bluff,” by Christopher Drew and Sherry Sontag. The sub was found about 200 yards away. The idea behind such pooled forecasting is that each person offers a small bit of insight and that those “weak signals from diverse experts accumulate quickly,” said Philip E. Tetlock, a professor of management at the Wharton School who works with the Office of the director of National Intelligence on the Good Judgment Project, which tests forecasts of geopolitical events. In the case of the downed plane, forecasters might bring in climate and ocean scientists, engineers who worked on building the plane’s components and commercial pilots familiar with the route. Those specialists would then make judgments based on the scenarios already discussed as possible causes for the disappearance of Flight 370: terrorism, pilot error, sudden depressurization and engine failure. The experts are sometimes grouped in teams, whose prognostications are then weighted according to factors, such as how up-to-date their information is and how solid their previous track records are, said Lyle H. Ungar, a professor in the department of computer and information science at the University of Pennsylvania, who works on the forecasts. “We do a lot of this pooled forecasting and it works pretty well, sometimes spookily well,” Dr. Tetlock said. Sound-detection technology in and around the Indian Ocean may aid this forecasting — or render it moot, other experts said. The Chinese may already have sound-detection equipment in waters nearby. And any submarine in those waters — Chinese, American or otherwise — would be equipped with sound surveillance systems that could pick up the signature of a fallen plane, even many miles off, said Alfred Scott McLaren, a former submarine commander who has mapped Arctic waters, including the Siberian Shelf. Dr. McLaren said that the area where the Malaysian plane seems to have gone down lies amid “a cluster of potential global rivals” and that the sound of the airliner’s fall — if it hit the water — might already have been picked up by submarines watching each other. “In that case the information would be classified,” he said, “and we wouldn’t know anything until it was released through back channels somehow.” Walter Munk, an oceanographer at the Scripps Institution of Oceanography, said that with international cooperation the technology exists to track almost any airliner that falls into open ocean, but the system needs to be in place before an incident. The Atlantic and Pacific are somewhat covered, but places like the Andaman Sea and the Indian Ocean are much less so. “I think you could put detection systems in about twelve places in the world, chosen carefully,” Dr. Munk said, “and then we would be much better prepared to find the next downed airplane that seemed to disappear.” A version of this article appears in print on March 15, 2014, on page A8 of the New York edition with the headline: U.S. Navy Strategists Have a Long History of Finding the Lost. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Science   Funding the Future. Channels & Shows Home Search Science Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Science Funding the Future By Margaret Cheatham Williams | Mar. 15, 2014 | 4:26 As government financing of basic science research has plunged, private donors have filled the void, raising questions about the future of research for the public good. Related: article: Billionaires With Big Ideas Are Privatizing American Science Show More PlaylistUp Next in Science Next →   Science0:15 Spinning Ice Circle in Russia   Health3:01 Why It’s Hard to Keep the Pounds Off   U.S.0:34 Time-Lapse of Northern Lights in Alaska   Science0:27 Panoramic Image of Mars Landscape   Science0:49 The Scorpions Are Out Early This Year ScienceTake Science1:30 ScienceTake | Shake a Tail Feather   Europe1:18 Remembering Chernobyl   Science0:35 Gorillas in Danger of Extinction   Science1:36 Parrots: The Highlight Reel ScienceTake Science1:38 Debunking the Viper’s Strike © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Sports   Lundqvist Ties Team Win Mark. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content Skip to navigation View mobile version The New York Times Sports|Lundqvist Ties Team Win Mark Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go http://nyti.ms/1nr9brB Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Supported by Sports | Sports Briefing | Hockey Lundqvist Ties Team Win Mark By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 15, 2014 Continue reading the main story Share This Page Continue reading the main story Henrik Lundqvist stopped 30 shots to tie Mike Richter for the Rangers’ record for career wins, with 301, and Carl Hagelin scored three goals in a 4-2 victory over host Winnipeg. ■ In other games, Scottie Upshall scored the go-ahead goal as the Florida Panthers topped the visiting Devils, 5-3, and Matt Nieto and Jason Demers scored first-period goals as the San Jose Sharks beat the host Islanders, 4-3. Continue reading the main story What's Next Loading... Go to Home Page » Site Index The New York Times Site Index Navigation News World U.S. Politics N.Y. Business Tech Science Health Sports Education Obituaries Today's Paper Corrections Opinion Today's Opinion Op-Ed Columnists Editorials Contributing Writers Op-Ed Contributors Opinionator Letters Sunday Review Taking Note Room for Debate Public Editor Video: Opinion Arts Today's Arts Art & Design ArtsBeat Books Dance Movies Music N.Y.C. Events Guide Television Theater Video: Arts Living Automobiles Crossword Food Education Fashion & Style Health Jobs Magazine N.Y.C. Events Guide Real Estate T Magazine Travel Weddings & Celebrations Listings & More Classifieds Tools & Services Times Topics Public Editor N.Y.C. Events Guide Blogs Multimedia Photography Video NYT Store Times Journeys Subscribe Manage My Account Subscribe Subscribe Times Insider Home Delivery Digital Subscriptions NYT Opinion Crossword Email Newsletters Alerts Gift Subscriptions Corporate Subscriptions Education Rate Mobile Applications Replica Edition International New York Times Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Technology   A Demonstration of Enigma. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Video A Demonstration of Enigma Mar. 15, 2014 | 1:55 Hicham Oudghiri, a co-founder of Enigma, demonstrated an application of his company’s service during the TechCrunch Disrupt conference in 2013. Related: article: A Harvest of Company Details, All in One Basket Show More PlaylistUp Next in Video Next → Op-Docs: Season 5 9:23 I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked   Video1:08 Hitting all the Right Notes Op-Docs: Season 5 13:33 Manufacturing China’s Future Op-Docs: Season 5 6:05 Fashion vs. Art   Video0:56 Excerpt: ‘The Father’   Video0:33 Excerpt: ‘Exit Strategy’ Op-Docs: Season 5 7:19 A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race   Video1:58 Excerpt: ‘Antlia Pneumatica’   News Clips: Europe1:20 Officials React to Panama Papers   News Clips: Europe3:47 Mossack Fonseca on Data Leak © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Travel   Brand Placement Moves to the High Seas. Advertisement If your cruise ship makes you feel more at home than ever, it’s not just the comfortable cabins. The expansion of familiar brands on the high seas is showcasing American pop culture. Cartoon characters are a staple of many family-focused ships, including the new 4,028-passenger Norwegian Getaway that launched this year with a Nickelodeon-themed water park headlined by SpongeBob SquarePants. Last week, the Cat in the Hat, Sam-I-Am and other Dr. Seuss characters were aboard the 4,914-passenger Carnival Splendor. The new Dr. Seuss program includes a Green Eggs and Ham Breakfast, storytelling time and a character parade on each cruise. The line plans to expand its Seuss programs to all 24 ships by next year. For music lovers, Holland America Line is in the midst of expanding its B. B. King’s Blues Club from one ship to five. The B. B. King Blues Club Bands play in one of the ships’ lounges on a special stage modeled on the original Memphis club five nights each week aboard the Westerdam, Noordam and Zuiderdam, and is coming soon to the Eurodam and Nieuw Amsterdam. On the high end of partnerships, Celebrity Cruises links with the destination spa Canyon Ranch to offer SpaClub at Sea on 10 of its 11 ships by April 14. Its new shipboard treatment menu will include Reiki energy therapy, Pilates, acupuncture and chiropractic therapy. Frequent cruisers might already by acquainted with the spa; Canyon Ranch operates on Cunard, Oceania and Regent Seven Seas ships. A version of this article appears in print on 03/16/2014, on page TR3 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Brand Placement Moves to the High Seas. In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Business   Giant Interactive, a Chinese Web Video Game Operator, Agrees to $3 Billion Buyout. Advertisement   The buyout of Giant, which is based in Shanghai and listed in New York, ranks as the second-biggest such “take-private” deal for a Chinese company after the $3.8 billion privatization of Focus Media, which was delisted from the Nasdaq after being acquired last May by its chairman and a consortium of private equity companies. Giant on Monday accepted the leveraged buyout offer from its chairman, Shi Yuzhu, Baring Private Equity Asia and Hony Capital of China after the group raised its bid to $12 per share, up from the $11.75 per share originally offered in November. The buyers already controlled a 47 percent stake in the company and have lined up debt financing of $850 million, slightly more than half of the $1.6 billion they will need to pay for the shares they do not already own. While a new wave of Chinese Internet companies is lining up to sell shares in the United States — led by companies like the e-commerce powerhouse Alibaba and the Sina Corporation’s Weibo microblog unit — a group of companies that conducted American initial public offerings years ago is in the process of delisting. In many cases, these take-private deals are the result of slumping share prices that came after a spate of short-seller attacks on American-listed Chinese companies in recent years. Private equity companies have often teamed up with management to help bankroll the buyout bids. Giant, which develops and operates a number of popular multiplayer online games in China, raised almost $900 million when it listed in New York in 2007. In going private, Giant is following another major Chinese online game company, Shanda Interactive Entertainment, which was delisted from the Nasdaq in 2012 by its chairman in a deal that valued it at $2.3 billion. Giant’s board, which unanimously supported the buyout, was advised by Morgan Stanley. The buyers were advised by China Minsheng Bank, BNP Paribas, Credit Suisse, Deutsche Bank, Goldman Sachs, ICBC International Capital and JPMorgan Chase; those banks are also arranging debt financing for the buyout. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   In Varanasi, a Lifetime Spent in a World of Death. Advertisement VARANASI, India — In India’s oldest city, the only female gatekeeper of heaven sits in her homespun sari and tends to an open oven in a 14th-century building near the sacred Ganges River. In a city where Hindus come to die, Yamuna Devi, a member of the Dom, a century-old untouchable caste that handles cremation, oversees the earthly end of a Hindu’s spiritual journey. Ms. Devi, 65, is the keeper of the sacred fire at Manikarnika Ghat, the holiest crematorium for Hindus, who believe a cremation at Manikarnika prevents rebirth, ensuring entry into heaven. She contends that her oven has been been lighted for centuries, containing what she calls the eternal flame, without which the funeral pyres cannot be lighted. Everyone around her calls her a funeral director, a job she inherited from her husband, who died three decades ago. When Doms die, usually another male family member takes over the business of the final rites, but Ms. Devi decided to take on her husband’s work to support her two young sons. “My life is to live in a world of death,” Ms. Devi said in an interview earlier this month, sitting on a torn mat in a courtyard filled with smoke and surrounded by walls coated with soot accumulated over decades. She spends more than 10 hours daily at the ghat, or bathing place near a river, in Manikarnika. An estimated 100 bodies are cremated daily at Manikarnika, where a pyre burns 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. Across Varanasi, nearly 200 bodies are burned every day. Manikarnika, which in regional Sanskrit means “earrings,” is an important place of worship for the Shaktism sect of Hinduism. One Hindu tradition says the ghat was formed when the ear jewel from Lord Shiva fell on the earth while he was dancing angrily. Doms are normally found near Manikarnika Ghat and Raja Harishchandra Ghat, the two most important crematoriums in Varanasi. It is imperative for those who bring their dead to cremate in Manikarnika to take a flaming bunch of hay from the oven Ms. Devi oversees. Nearby, a frail Hindu farmer, Ashok Singh, took a bit of fire from Ms. Devi’s oven, paid his fee and walked to light the pyre under his father. Mr. Singh, who is from Allahabad, about 75 miles from Varanasi, made the trip so that the soul of his father would go to heaven. “I traveled for four hours to reach Manikarnika to fulfill my father’s last wish,” Mr. Singh said. Every day, Ms. Devi makes sure to walk around the fire five times to honor the five elements — fire, water, earth, air and ether — as part of a Hindu custom to ensure her livelihood, which has been a good one for her family. The official price for use of the fire is 375 rupees, about $6, but because she has control over the only sacred fire at Manikarnika, Ms. Devi can charge 2,000 to 3,000 rupees per body. She collects the cash in an iron chest and ferries it with an armed guard at the end of the day. One of her sons, Arjun Chowdhury, 47, collects the fees for bodies that come after 8 p.m. and handles other funeral duties at night, sleeping only during the day. Mr. Chowdhury sells people standard pyre fare: wood, coconuts, bananas, flowers, ghee, milk, incense sticks and expensive sandalwood. Other packages on offer include a sandalwood sawdust bath for the corpse and a three-hour chant for peace. Mr. Chowdhury said he provides the first set of five logs of wood required for the funeral pyre. The rest of the wood is provided by the relatives of the deceased. He then hands over the lighted straw to the person, who then uses it to light the funeral pyre. Ms. Devi said she wanted her two sons to become doctors or engineers, but the boys were routinely taunted and ostracized at school because of their caste. Eventually, they came back to Manikarnika to help their mother. “A Dom’s life is valued only at the crematorium because people are uncomfortable handling a dead body,” she said, chuckling. Ms. Devi said she was happy with her job, although she said there were times when she tired of watching corpses burn and smelling their burning flesh. But beyond the ghats, Doms have no status, and a life that revolves around the dead is rarely a joyful one. She recalled talking about her work with a former deputy prime minister, Lal Krishna Advani, now a senior leader of the right-wing opposition Bharatiya Janata Party, who was attending a funeral during the dead of night many years ago. “He was keen to know about our lives. I told him we lead a life of no hope,” she said. Ashis Nandy, a noted Indian social scientist, said Doms in Varanasi rarely break away from their families’ profession because it is lucrative, thanks to the spiritual importance of India’s holiest city to Hindus. “It stems from devotion to rituals and adherence to caste,” he said. “It will not change. Thousands of Indians visit the city in the hope to die on the banks of the river to avoid rebirth.” Many of those Indians arrive in Varanasi thinking they have only days left to live but end up staying for years in crowded  homes for the elderly. “They all live close by, waiting for death,” said Satyendra Singh, a businessman whose hotel, which is in a 17th-century palace, is close to Moksha Bhavan, Varanasi’s biggest resting home for those awaiting death. After Mr. Singh’s comment was repeated to her, Ms. Devi just smiled. It was a familiar concept: Her life, and her livelihood, was all about waiting for death. Shantanu Guha Ray is a journalist based in New Delhi. India’s national elections began April 7 and will continue on nine separate dates until May 12, with results expected to be announced on May 16. The vote is the world’s largest, with 814 million eligible voters set to choose 543 members of the lower house of Parliament. The other two seats will be appointed by the president. This election is widely considered to be India’s most consequential since 1977. India Ink will be moving to the World page of The New York Times. Read more… A memorial ceremony at the Imphal War Cemetery in Manipur to honor the soldiers who died during World War II.Read more… The newly elected prime minister reaches out to the public in a blog post about his first 30 days in office.Read more… Newborns whose mothers are unable to breastfeed are given stored breast milk to protect them from potentially life-threatening infection.Read more… In the final stage of a long decline, Hindustan Motors announced in May that it would suspend production of the Ambassador, a car that was once synonymous with style and status.Read more… This report on India from the journalists of The New York Times and a pool of talented writers in India and beyond provides unbiased, authoritative reporting on the country and its place in the world. India Ink also strives to be a virtual meeting point for discussion of this complex, fast-changing democracy – its politics, economy, culture and everyday life. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Society   Robert Chaloner and Oscar Mandes Jr.. Advertisement Advertisement MARCH 16, 2014 Robert Stanley Chaloner and Oscar Fabriciano Mandes Jr. were married Saturday by the Rev. Karen Ann Campbell at the Christ Episcopal Church in Sag Harbor, N.Y. Mr. Chaloner (left), 56, is the president and chief executive of Southampton Hospital in Southampton, N.Y. He is also a part-time lecturer at the Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health. He graduated from Dartmouth and received a master’s in public health and another in urban planning, both from Columbia, and an M.B.A., from New York University. He is the son of Margaret A. Chaloner of Coxsackie, N.Y., and the late Dr. Robert G. Chaloner. His father retired as a general practitioner in Coxsackie. Mr. Mandes, 48, is studying for a master’s in social work at the State University at Stony Brook, from which he graduated. Until 2007, he was a sales associate at Liz O’Brien, a furniture gallery in New York. He is the son of Lutgarda Mandes and Oscar F. Mandes Sr. of San Juan. His father retired as a maître d’hôtel at the Hotel St. Moritz in New York. Mr. Chaloner’s first marriage ended in divorce. A version of this article appears in print on March 16, 2014, on page ST19 of the New York edition with the headline: Robert Chaloner, Oscar Mandes Jr. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Sports   Mo Farah Falls. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Video Mo Farah Falls Mar. 16, 2014 | 0:13 The runner Mo Farah fell Sunday at the New York City Half Marathon. Show More PlaylistUp Next in Video Next → Op-Docs: Season 5 9:23 I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked   Video1:08 Hitting all the Right Notes Op-Docs: Season 5 13:33 Manufacturing China’s Future Op-Docs: Season 5 6:05 Fashion vs. Art   Video0:56 Excerpt: ‘The Father’   Video0:33 Excerpt: ‘Exit Strategy’ Op-Docs: Season 5 7:19 A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race   Video1:58 Excerpt: ‘Antlia Pneumatica’   News Clips: Europe1:20 Officials React to Panama Papers   News Clips: Europe3:47 Mossack Fonseca on Data Leak © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Technology   A Constellation of Satellites. Channels & Shows Home Search Technology Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Technology A Constellation of Satellites By Sean Patrick Farrell | Mar. 17, 2014 | 2:17 Planet Labs, a San Francisco aerospace start-up, is launching 100 of its small satellites into orbit this year where they will photograph the Earth every single day. Related: article: Start-Ups Aim to Conquer Space Market Show More PlaylistUp Next in Technology Next →   Business1:31 Fiat Chief on New Innovation Ideas   Technology0:37 Australian Says He Created Bitcoin Retro Report U.S. & Politics11:41 The Terminator and the Washing Machine   Business1:33 Is Apple Right in Defying the F.B.I.? App Smart Technology2:08 App Smart | The Dating Game App Smart Technology2:11 App Smart | Day Trackers App Smart Technology2:08 App Smart | Fresh From CES App Smart Technology2:08 App Smart | Digital Diaries App Smart Technology2:11 App Smart | 2016 Trends App Smart Technology2:10 Goals for the New Year © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Travel   Choose Your Own Cruise. Advertisement Advertisement The complexity of picking the right cruise has kept travel agencies flush for years. The accompanying flow chart, assembled with the help of CruiseCompete.com, a site that compiles competing cruise offers, is intended to help sort through some of the choices that factor into that decision-making process, from pricing to destinations to theme. At the end of each route, you will find a recommended option — but there are many more out there. MARCH 14, 2014 BON VOYAGE THE DESTINATION IS MORE IMPORTANT THAN THE SHIP. NO, I JUST WANT TO GET AWAY. YES, WHERE I GO IS PRIMARY. I’M LOOKING FOR A RESORT AT SEA RATHER THAN CULTURAL IMMERSION. TAKING CHILDREN? I JUST WANT IT ALL. NOT NECESSARILY. DEFINITELY. NO YES I WANT TO ESCAPE CIVILIZATION. I WANT TO MAXIMIZE ENTERTAINMENT AND ACTION. A LITTLE I’M WISHY- WASHY. YES YES, I WANT TO EXPLORE THE WORLD. EH, I’M EASY TO PLEASE. NO, I WANT TO SEE SOME CULTURE. NO, BRING THE PEACE AND QUIET. I’M WORRIED ABOUT CROWDS. A LITTLE. NO RIVER Châteaux, Rivers & Wine (France) Viking River Cruises EXPEDITION Ultimate Bays and Fjords (Alaska) Un-Cruise Adventures SMALL (Under 900 passengers) Mediterranean Magic Seabourn MID-SIZE (900 to 2,500) 10-Day Panama Canal Sunfarer Holland America Line LARGE (2,501 and up) Eastern Caribbean Norwegian Cruise Line TEXT BY ELAINE GLUSAC | ILLUSTRATION BY JACK DYLAN
U.S.   Retro Report. Channels & Shows Home Search U.S. & Politics Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos In bold documentary style, Retro Report looks back at the major stories that shaped the world using fresh interviews, analysis and compelling archival footage. Produced by Retro Report for The New York Times. Recent Episodes in Retro Report Retro Report U.S. & Politics 12:56 A Change of Heart Retro Report U.S. & Politics 11:41 The Terminator and the Washing Machine Retro Report U.S. & Politics 11:31 After Bush v. Gore Retro Report U.S. & Politics 2:02 When Dreams Fly Retro Report U.S. & Politics 8:29 Runaway Plane Retro Report U.S. & Politics 2:03 Is it All in Your Gut? Retro Report U.S. & Politics 1:39 The Unexpected Science of Exercise Retro Report U.S. & Politics 2:03 The Bliss Point Retro Report U.S. & Politics 12:30 A Decades-Long Search for a Perfect Diet Show more videos from Retro Report Most Popular 1 Opinion Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics 2 U.S. Obama Delivers Howard’s Commencement 3 Fashion & Style Bill Cunningham | Garden Party 4 Science Why It’s Hard to Keep the Pounds Off 5 U.S. How Will Obama Spend His Retirement? 6 World The Killing of Farkhunda 7 Science Parrots: The Highlight Reel 8 Opinion A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race 9 Health In Love and Loss 10 Food How to Cut Up a Whole Chicken © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Business   World War I Novel. Advertisement By David Kwong Mar 18, 2014 The New York Times Crossword is available through subscription only. TUESDAY’S PUZZLE — David Kwong is two people: he is both magician and puzzle constructor. At his very best, he combines the two, and today is a very nice example of that. Magic tricks work because prestidigitators are experts at misdirecting the unwitting public, and Mr. Kwong has done just that. With a wave of his wand, he’s made all of the ARMs in the puzzle disappear. I thought all four of the phrases Mr. Kwong used worked very well, even though it took me a few minutes to figure out where the ARM went in 24 Across’s GENT DISTRICT because I solved that using the crossings. (The original base phrase was GARMENT DISTRICT.) Still looking for the rest? Try BURGLAR ALARM for “Home-invading Gore?”s BURGLAR AL, DEATH WARMED OVER for “Exchange of vows again for the Grim Reaper?”s DEATH WED OVER and SNAKE CHARMER for “Emmy, Oscar and Grammy-winning reptile?”‘s SNAKE CHER. In non-theme news, I’m always pleased to see the A-GO-GO suffix. Maybe it’s because I’m a lover of kitsch. When you drive around the part of Florida where my parents live, many of the names of some of the finer retail establishments seem to sport the “a-go-go” or “o-rama” designation. That’s how you know it’s a classy joint, apparently. I mistakenly had BVI for British Virgin Islands at first for 47 Down, even though the Bahamas are not part of that island chain. The correct answer, of course is BWI, for British West Indies. Clue of the Day for me was “One instrumental in history” for the famous violin maker AMATI. Had maestro AMATI had his studio in Florida at the time, I am fairly sure the engraving on his delicate instruments would have been “Made by Strings a-go-go”. The only bone I have to pick with this puzzle is that NOR is more to my mind an abbreviation for Norway than NORW. Other than that, the whole thing was completely ARM-less, as far as I’m concerned. Let’s chat with Mr. Kwong: I came up with the idea for this puzzle years ago and am grateful that it’s finally seeing print. It was inspired by one of my all-time favorite books. That book is well-worn and dog-eared, and sits on my coffee table with “Don Quixote” and “Expert at the Card Table”. What I love so much about crosswords is that they ask something of you. So often today we find ourselves consuming, glued to our computers, watching the latest Internet video. But puzzles allow us to turn that off and solve! I hope your Tuesday morning was by brightened a little by this puzzle. I thoroughly enjoyed constructing it! And we enjoyed solving it. Please come back soon. Updated, 8:44 p.m. | O.K. Time to spill the beans. Yes, we were being had, sort of. The crossword puzzle you solved today was also part of a TED Talk given by constructor David Kwong, and there was a hidden message in the clues, which may be why they sounded a bit awkward (Wordplay readers did not comment that much on them, but the acrostic nature of the cluing was discussed in the comments on other blogs.) If you read the first letter of each clue in Mr. Kwong’s puzzle, a message is spelled out that has to do with a special trick he performed during his talk. That message is seemingly a string of colors and animals, but why? Well, when you read the first letters of those words, what you wind up with is: CHAOS / ORDER / OH, BY THE WAY, THE SHEEP CAN BE LEFT ___ (blank). Mr. Kwong’s TED Talk had to do with bringing ORDER to CHAOS through magic. By asking an audience volunteer to color in some animals on an easel and revealing pre-colored cards of animals colored exactly the same way (a COBALT HORSE, an AMBER OWL, a SILVER OX, a RED DONKEY and an EMERALD ROOSTER … the sheep was left blank), he was able to show exactly how he was able to “suggest” these colors to his volunteer and pre-plant them in her head. Unfortunately, the Mr. Kwong’s video of his talk will not be up for a while on the TED site, but the organizers of the TED Talk have published a blog post about his presentation, which you can read here. In addition, here’s a Q&A with Will Shortz about how this whole thing came to be. Many thanks to Emily McManus and Thu-Huong Ha for passing these posts along. How could anyone not love Rowan Atkinson’s character MR. BEAN? Here he is, just trying to have a relaxing picnic: Your thoughts? Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. David Kahn puts us through the wringer.Read more… Emily Cox and Henry Rathvon offer us a challenging cryptic crossword puzzle.Read more… A place for solvers to discuss and ask questions about the “A Little Variety” suite of puzzles.Read more… Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   In Our Pages: March 18. Advertisement 1914: Old Jewelry at London Museum LONDON — When the London Museum is opened in Stafford House next Monday the surprise will be the cases full of Elizabethan or Jacobean jewelry. This collection is the only important addition to the museum since it was housed in Kensington Palace. Curiously, little has been heard about the hoard, as officials maintain silence on the subject. No one seems to know anything about it, except that about a year ago, near St. Paul’s, someone unearthed what was evidently the contents of a shop full of gold and silver work. 1939: Surrealist Loses His Temper NEW YORK — Salvador Dali found a violent new expression for his subconscious last night by heaving a surrealist bathtub, plus himself, through one of Bonwit Teller’s Fifth Avenue show windows and getting himself arrested on a charge of malicious mischief. The Catalan artist was unhurt by his Fifth Avenue bathtub episode, but was pretty excited about it. Dali had decorated two show windows with tableaux of “Day” and “Night” in accordance with his rather peculiar conception of such phenomena, and when he returned to admire his handiwork he discovered the tableaux had been altered in accordance with the staff window dressers’ notions of these phenomena.  This blog will share highlights and curiosities from The International Herald Tribune's storied reportage. While we will share coverage of historic events — the world wars, the women's suffrage movement, the great expeditions — we will also republish glimpses of less earth-shaking moments and the ephemera of daily life. The same stories that caught the eyes of our generations of editors now offer us insight into the lives and interests of generations of Trib readers. Read more » From the International Herald Tribune archives: The Vichy government limits menus in 1941.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: A Nigerian officer at war sends a dispatch in 1916. Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: Germany establishes a naval repair shop 500 miles from South America in 1941.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: Prince Victor Napoleon gives a treatise on French politics in 1891.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: British troops attack Irak forces in 1941.Read more… Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Science   Study Questions Fat and Heart Disease Link Sign Up for the Running Email. Advertisement Many of us have long been told that saturated fat, the type found in meat, butter and cheese, causes heart disease. But a large and exhaustive new analysis by a team of international scientists found no evidence that eating saturated fat increased heart attacks and other cardiac events. The new findings are part of a growing body of research that has challenged the accepted wisdom that saturated fat is inherently bad for you and will continue the debate about what foods are best to eat. For decades, health officials have urged the public to avoid saturated fat as much as possible, saying it should be replaced with the unsaturated fats in foods like nuts, fish, seeds and vegetable oils. But the new research, published on Monday in the journal Annals of Internal Medicine, did not find that people who ate higher levels of saturated fat had more heart disease than those who ate less. Nor did it find less disease in those eating higher amounts of unsaturated fat, including monounsaturated fat like olive oil or polyunsaturated fat like corn oil. “My take on this would be that it’s not saturated fat that we should worry about” in our diets, said Dr. Rajiv Chowdhury, the lead author of the new study and a cardiovascular epidemiologist in the department of public health and primary care at Cambridge University. But Dr. Frank Hu, a professor of nutrition and epidemiology at the Harvard School of Public Health, said the findings should not be taken as “a green light” to eat more steak, butter and other foods rich in saturated fat. He said that looking at individual fats and other nutrient groups in isolation could be misleading, because when people cut down on fats they tend to eat more bread, cold cereal and other refined carbohydrates that can also be bad for cardiovascular health. “The single macronutrient approach is outdated,” said Dr. Hu, who was not involved in the study. “I think future dietary guidelines will put more and more emphasis on real food rather than giving an absolute upper limit or cutoff point for certain macronutrients.” He said people should try to eat foods that are typical of the Mediterranean diet, like nuts, fish, avocado, high-fiber grains and olive oil. A large clinical trial last year, which was not included in the current analysis, found that a Mediterranean diet with more nuts and extra virgin olive oil reduced heart attacks and strokes when compared with a lower fat diet with more starches. Alice H. Lichtenstein, a nutritional biochemist at Tufts University, agreed that “it would be unfortunate if these results were interpreted to suggest that people can go back to eating butter and cheese with abandon,” citing evidence that replacing saturated fat with foods that are high in polyunsaturated fats – instead of simply eating more carbohydrates – reduces cardiovascular risk. Dr. Lichtenstein, who was not involved in the latest study, was the lead author of the American Heart Association’s dietary guidelines, which recommend that people restrict saturated fat to as little as 5 percent of their daily calories, or roughly two tablespoons of butter or two ounces of Cheddar cheese for the typical person eating about 2,000 calories a day. The heart association states that restricting saturated fat and eating more unsaturated fat, beans and vegetables can protect against heart disease by lowering low-density lipoprotein or so-called bad cholesterol. In the new research, Dr. Chowdhury and his colleagues sought to evaluate the best evidence to date, drawing on nearly 80 studies involving more than a half million people. They looked not only at what people reportedly ate, but at more objective measures such as the composition of fatty acids in their bloodstreams and in their fat tissue. The scientists also reviewed evidence from 27 randomized controlled trials – the gold standard in scientific research – that assessed whether taking polyunsaturated fat supplements like fish oil promoted heart health. The researchers did find a link between trans fats, the now widely maligned partially hydrogenated oils that had long been added to processed foods, and heart disease. But they found no evidence of dangers from saturated fat, or benefits from other kinds of fats. The primary reason saturated fat has historically had a bad reputation is that it increases low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, or LDL, the kind that raises the risk for heart attacks. But the relationship between saturated fat and LDL is complex, said Dr. Chowdhury. In addition to raising LDL cholesterol, saturated fat also increases high-density lipoprotein, or HDL, the so-called good cholesterol. And the LDL that it raises is a subtype of big, fluffy particles that are generally benign. Doctors refer to a preponderance of these particles as LDL pattern A. The smallest and densest form of LDL is more dangerous. These particles are easily oxidized and are more likely to set off inflammation and contribute to the buildup of artery-narrowing plaque. An LDL profile that consists mostly of these particles, known as pattern B, usually coincides with high triglycerides and low levels of HDL, both risk factors for heart attacks and stroke. The smaller, more artery-clogging particles are increased not by saturated fat, but by sugary foods and an excess of carbohydrates, Dr. Chowdhury said. “It’s the high carbohydrate or sugary diet that should be the focus of dietary guidelines,” he said. “If anything is driving your low-density lipoproteins in a more adverse way, it’s carbohydrates.” While the new research showed no relationship overall between saturated or polyunsaturated fat intake and cardiac events, there are numerous unique fatty acids within these two groups, and there was some indication that they are not all equal. When the researchers looked at fatty acids in the bloodstream, for example, they found that margaric acid, a saturated fat in milk and dairy products, was associated with lower cardiovascular risk. Two types of omega-3 fatty acids, the polyunsaturated fats found in fish, were also protective. But a number of the omega-6 polyunsaturated fatty acids, commonly found in vegetable oils and processed foods, may pose risks, the findings suggested. The researchers then looked at data from the randomized trials to see if taking supplements like fish oil produced any cardiovascular benefits. It did not. But Dr. Chowdhury said there might be a good explanation for this discrepancy. The supplement trials mostly involved people who had pre-existing heart disease or were at high risk of developing it, while the other studies involved generally healthy populations. So it is possible that the benefits of omega-3 fatty acids lie in preventing heart disease, rather than treating or reversing it. At least two large clinical trials designed to see if this is the case are currently underway. A version of this article appears in print on 03/18/2014, on page A3 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Study Doubts Saturated Fat’s Link to Heart Disease. Your health questions answered by Times journalists and experts. Your Questions | All » Get Well's Running email for practical tips, expert advice, exclusive content and a bit of motivation delivered to your inbox every week to help you on your running journey. Coming soon. How much do you know about the amazing things that go on in your gut? Take our quiz to find out about the creepy, crawly critters living in your home. What surface is the most friendly to the flu virus? Where’s the best place to stand when you’re talking to a sick person? How does sleep affect health, relationships and well-being? The “Reading the Mind in the Eyes Test” measures ability to understand others’ emotional states. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   Hirscher Adds Slalom Trophy to Overall Title. Advertisement Advertisement By KELLEY McMILLANMARCH 17, 2014 LENZERHEIDE, Switzerland — During the weekend, Marcel Hirscher of Austria sat in a hot tub and relaxed after a long season spent fighting for the World Cup overall title. After placing fourth in the giant slalom here on Saturday, the battle was over — he had statistically won the 2014 overall trophy. What was less certain on Saturday was the outcome of his final race, the slalom on Sunday. Going into the race, Hirscher, 25, trailed Felix Neureuther of Germany by five points in the World Cup slalom standings. In order to clinch the World Cup slalom title, he needed to win the race. On Sunday, Hirscher skied two aggressive runs for a total time of two minutes 07.74 seconds, to notch the victory, his fifth of the season, and edge Neureuther for the slalom trophy by 76-hundredths of a second. The 2014 Olympic gold medalist Mario Matt of Austria finished third with a time of 2 minutes 8.82 seconds. It was Hirscher’s second slalom globe and, in clinching the 2014 World Cup overall title, he became the first Austrian man to win three straight overall titles and only the fourth man ever to do so. Advertisement “It is unbelievable,” Hirscher said after officially winning the slalom and overall titles on Sunday. “But enough time hasn’t gone by to give you my impressions and emotions. For my first globe, I need more than a year and a half to realize what I had done.” However, Hirscher’s slalom victory was marred by allegations of unsportsmanlike conduct on the part of his coach Mike Pircher, who set the first slalom course and created a difficult and awkward run that favored his racer, who skied first in the opening leg. Advertisement Before each race, coaches are selected randomly to set racecourses in the slalom, giant slalom and super-G events. “I think it would be better if you had a race where the level of skiing could be higher with more guys. When you set a course where only the first guy has a real chance of having a good run, that kind of eliminates what kind of race” you can have, said Ted Ligety of the United States who won his fifth season-long giant slalom trophy on Saturday. Unreasonable course settings have been an issue simmering on the men’s World Cup circuit this season, with athletes and coaches also pointing to the strange and challenging slalom courses set by Ante Kostelic of Croatia, the coach and father of racer Ivicia Kostelic, who set a difficult course in Kitzbühel, Austria, and again at the Sochi Winter Olympics. Neureuther added: “When it’s a course setting like this, it’s bad for our sport. It looks bad for TV. People think we are not good skiers. At a time like this, we need to think about the future of our sport and how we can get people watching skiing, so our sport will survive, so the ski companies will survive.” Hirscher and Neureuther suggested that the International Ski Federation, ski racing’s governing body, should consider implementing professional course-setters. Although he was upset by the first run’s course set, Neureuther was quick to praise Hirscher. “It was a very tough end, but I have to accept everything. He deserved the globe.” Advertisement Over the past three seasons, Hirscher’s dominance in the technical events, the giant slalom and slalom, has been almost unprecedented. He has reached the podium in 48 of 64 World Cup events, won Olympic gold in slalom, and gold and silver in the slalom and giant slalom, respectively, at the 2013 Alpine World Championships in Schladming, Austria. He placed in the top three in 12 out of 17 technical events this season, whereas Aksel Lund Svindal of Norway, a speed specialist, who Hirscher beat by 131 points in the overall standings, was on the podium in seven of 15 speed events. “His consistency over the last couple of years has been pretty amazing. To be able to get on the podium, even in the top five, in every single race, that’s pretty impressive,” Ligety said. “And he’s supertough mentally — and that’s tough to be at that level week in and week out. That’s something people are rarely able to achieve.” Throughout the season, Hirscher and Svindal swapped the overall lead. Going into the finals this week, Svindal had a four-point advantage over Hirscher, and each man had two of his preferred events on the docket. It was anyone’s battle to lose. Beginning at the Olympics in Sochi, Russia, Svindal began to uncharacteristically slump. He left the Games early and without a medal, and went home to Norway to recover. Ultimately, when he returned to the World Cup circuit, he was unable to find his footing in time to salvage the overall title. “I think he lost some energy, to be honest, physically and mentally. You have to have that extra something to give at the start, not just your skiing,” said Kjetil Jansrud of Norway, Svindal’s teammate and close friend. Although Svindal lost the overall, he did win the downhill and super G trophies for the second straight year and was pleased with his performance this season. “I try to look at the positive. Be proud about it. I have skied well and that’s why I’m in this position,” Svindal said after the race on Thursday. “For sure the overall title is the biggest one, but the disciple titles are also cool.” Advertisement He added: “You know, that battle for the overall, it’s a tough one. It’s never ending. When you get someone that’s as consistent as Marcel, you get no breaks.” After the race on Sunday, Hirscher planned to celebrate his season, but not for long. “As soon as one season ends, the next one begins.”  Another title to Fenninger Anna Fenninger of Austria, the World Cup overall champion, added the giant slalom title on Sunday by winning the season-ending race. In Lenzerheide, Switzerland, she had to finish ahead of the pre-race standings leader Jessica Lindell-Vikarby of Sweden.That she did and duly won her fourth straight World Cup giant slalom. Fenninger’s two-run combined time of 2 minutes, 1.28 seconds was 0.25 faster than teammate Eva-Maria Brem. Lindell-Vikarby was third, trailing 0.33 behind Fenninger, whose 100 race points lifted her to victory by 26 points over the eight-race giant slalom season. Fenninger, the Olympic silver medalist in the giant slalom, got her first career World Cup discipline title. She completed an Austrian sweep of race victories and discipline titles on Sunday. Fenninger and Marcel Hirscher have given Austria its first overall title double since 2002. Mikaela Shiffrin of the United States was fourth-fastest in the morning run but dropped to 12th in the second run, 0.95 behind Fenninger. Advertisement Shiffrin, 19, finished the season sixth in the overall standings and seventh in the giant slalom. On Saturday, she won her fifth World Cup slalom this season to retain her discipline title. A version of this article appears in print on March 17, 2014, in The International New York Times. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Travel   A ‘Frozen’ Suite at an Ice Hotel. Advertisement A suite at Quebec City’s Hôtel de Glace brings aspects of Disney’s animated movie “Frozen” to life. Modeled after the central characters’ bedrooms, the “Frozen Suite” was designed and supervised by Michael Giaimo, the film’s art director. Loosely based on a Hans Christian Andersen tale, the movie focuses on the story of sisters Anna and Elsa and how their mythical town, Arendelle, unexpectedly turns from summer into an arduous winter. This concept fit Hôtel de Glace’s overall “Myths and Legends from Around the World” theme for 2014. Inside the suite are Anna and Elsa’s queen-size illuminated beds, tapestry etched into snowy walls, an ice fireplace and two sculpted armchairs. A public area in the hotel features an “activity cave” with an ice slide as well as a mural with the cast of characters carved on a wall. The suite was created in a week by two sculptors and their assistants, with “Walt Disney Studios working with the Hôtel de Glace to determine what was feasible to build in ice and snow,” Alicia Rochevrier, the hotel’s communications manager, said in an email. Ms. Rochevrier said that the beds’ special headboards were the most complicated to craft because the ice and snow were quite heavy to form into an awning. The hotel offers 17 suites and 27 standard rooms, and accommodations include complimentary cocktails served in glasses made out of ice, a warm breakfast and access to the hotel’s outdoor spa baths and sauna. Visitors need to bundle up: the ambient temperature is a constant  23 degrees, and sleeping bags are provided on beds. Like Elsa’s spell on Arendelle, the Ice Hotel does not last forever: it will be dismantled on March 23 and rebuilt from scratch the next year. Room rates for the Frozen Suite start at 850 Canadian dollars  for weekends and 625 dollars during the week with accommodations for two adults and two children. In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
U.S.   The Rescued Puppies. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Video The Rescued Puppies By John Schwartz | Mar. 18, 2014 | 0:15 Video of puppies who were rescued from a Las Vegas pet store fire. Show More PlaylistUp Next in Video Next → Op-Docs: Season 5 9:23 I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked   Video1:08 Hitting all the Right Notes Op-Docs: Season 5 13:33 Manufacturing China’s Future Op-Docs: Season 5 6:05 Fashion vs. Art   Video0:56 Excerpt: ‘The Father’   Video0:33 Excerpt: ‘Exit Strategy’ Op-Docs: Season 5 7:19 A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race   Video1:58 Excerpt: ‘Antlia Pneumatica’   News Clips: Europe1:20 Officials React to Panama Papers   News Clips: Europe3:47 Mossack Fonseca on Data Leak © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Business   Fortress, Benchmark and Ribbit Buy Stake in Pantera Bitcoin. Advertisement Several prominent investment firms are joining forces to buy stakes in one of the biggest Bitcoin operations in the world. The publicly traded New York private equity and hedge fund firm Fortress Investment Group and two other investors are buying a stake in Pantera Bitcoin Partners, a San Francisco-based hedge fund operator that buys and sells virtual currencies. The creation of the partnership represents a significant step in the push to move Bitcoin into the financial mainstream at a time when several well-publicized claims of theft have pointed to potential weaknesses in the digital currency economy. Pantera Capital, the parent of Pantera Bitcoin, was founded in 2003 by Dan Morehead, a veteran of the hedge fund giant Tiger Management. For most of its existence, Pantera was a macro hedge fund. But since 2011, Mr. Morehead has grown increasingly fascinated with Bitcoin, he said in an interview on Tuesday. In recent months, he said, the firm’s staff of 16 has shifted its attention to work full time on investments in the virtual currency world. “We’re very excited about the promise of Bitcoin and how it can transform the way we move money,” Mr. Morehead said. “The promise and possibilities here are very broad.” When Pantera made its first regulatory filing in December, its Bitcoin fund was worth $147 million. That is significantly larger than the Bitcoin Investment Trust, a $55 million fund run by the New York firm SecondMarket that holds virtual currencies on behalf of investors. The big venture capital firms Benchmark and Ribbit Capital are taking stakes in Pantera Bitcoin Partners, along with Fortress. All are committing to buy and sell Bitcoin and other virtual currencies through Pantera. While regulators debate the pros and cons of bitcoins, this volatile digital currency inspires the question: What makes money, money? Michael E. Novogratz, an executive at Fortress, had previously talked about his interest in Bitcoin, but until now it has been unclear how the firm was approaching digital money as an investment. Moving forward, Fortress said that it would make all of its Bitcoin purchases through Pantera.“This partnership brings together leading companies with a range of relevant expertise, well positioned to lead and capitalize on a potentially transformative evolution,” Mr. Novogratz said. In the years after the Bitcoin program was released by an anonymous founder known as Satoshi Nakamoto in 2009, most of the dominant players were small start-ups with few links to the traditional financial world. Part of the allure of Bitcoin was that it allowed users to move and store money outside the banking system. Recently, however, a number of pioneers, like the Japanese exchange Mt. Gox, have run into trouble, shaking confidence in the entire Bitcoin network. At the same time, investors and financial firms with more established credentials have been expressing their growing interest in Bitcoin. Last week, Goldman Sachs became the latest Wall Street firm to issue a research report on Bitcoin’s potential to shake up different parts of the financial system. Much of the research has been focused on Bitcoin not just as a form of digital money, but also as a new payment system, buttressed by the computers linked into the Bitcoin network. The system is run according to a prewritten set of rules, which determines how the coins are created and moved between digital wallets. Mr. Morehead’s management firm is giving up some of its ownership in Pantera Bitcoin Partners, which manages the Bitcoin fund. But all of the companies involved in Pantera Bitcoin Partners will continue to make their own investments in virtual currency start-up companies. Earlier this week, all four firms teamed up to make a $20 million investment in Xapo, a start-up that offers to secure the information needed to unlock Bitcoins in guarded vaults so that they cannot be reached by hackers. A version of this article appears in print on 03/19/2014, on page B3 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Investors Buy Stakes in Bitcoin Firm. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   Image of the Day: March 18. Advertisement   India’s national elections began April 7 and will continue on nine separate dates until May 12, with results expected to be announced on May 16. The vote is the world’s largest, with 814 million eligible voters set to choose 543 members of the lower house of Parliament. The other two seats will be appointed by the president. This election is widely considered to be India’s most consequential since 1977. India Ink will be moving to the World page of The New York Times. Read more… A memorial ceremony at the Imphal War Cemetery in Manipur to honor the soldiers who died during World War II.Read more… The newly elected prime minister reaches out to the public in a blog post about his first 30 days in office.Read more… Newborns whose mothers are unable to breastfeed are given stored breast milk to protect them from potentially life-threatening infection.Read more… In the final stage of a long decline, Hindustan Motors announced in May that it would suspend production of the Ambassador, a car that was once synonymous with style and status.Read more… This report on India from the journalists of The New York Times and a pool of talented writers in India and beyond provides unbiased, authoritative reporting on the country and its place in the world. India Ink also strives to be a virtual meeting point for discussion of this complex, fast-changing democracy – its politics, economy, culture and everyday life. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Science   Scientists Sound Alarm on Climate. Advertisement Advertisement Justin Gillis BY DEGREES MARCH 18, 2014 Early in his career, a scientist named Mario J. Molina was pulled into seemingly obscure research about strange chemicals being spewed into the atmosphere. Within a year, he had helped discover a global environmental emergency, work that would ultimately win a Nobel Prize. Now, at 70, Dr. Molina is trying to awaken the public to an even bigger risk. He spearheaded a committee of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the world’s largest general scientific society, which released a stark report Tuesday on global warming. The report warns that the effects of human emissions of heat-trapping gases are already being felt, that the ultimate consequences could be dire, and that the window to do something about it is closing. “The evidence is overwhelming: Levels of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere are rising,” says the report. “Temperatures are going up. Springs are arriving earlier. Ice sheets are melting. Sea level is rising. The patterns of rainfall and drought are changing. Heat waves are getting worse, as is extreme precipitation. The oceans are acidifying.” In a sense, this is just one more report about global warming in a string going back decades. For anybody who was already paying attention, the report contains no new science. But the language in the 18-page report, called “What We Know,” is sharper, clearer and more accessible than perhaps anything the scientific community has put out to date. Advertisement And the association does not plan to stop with the report. The group, with a membership of 121,200 scientists and science supporters around the world, plans a broad outreach campaign to put forward accurate information in simple language. The scientists are essentially trying to use their powers of persuasion to cut through public confusion over this issue. Polls show that most Americans are at least somewhat worried about global warming. But people generally do not understand that the problem is urgent — that the fate of future generations (not necessarily that far in the future) is being determined by emission levels now. Moreover, the average citizen tends to think there is more scientific debate about the basics than there really is. The report emphasizes that the experts have come to a consensus, with only a few dissenters. “Based on well-established evidence, about 97 percent of climate scientists have concluded that human-caused climate change is happening,” it says. That is not the same as claiming that all questions about climate change have been answered. In fact, enormous questions remain, and the science of global warming entails a robust, evolving discussion. The new report walks through a series of potential consequences of planetary warming, without asserting that any is sure to happen. They are possibilities, not certainties, and the distinction is crucial for an intelligent public debate about what to do. The worst-case forecasts include severe food shortages as warming makes it harder to grow crops; an accelerating rise of the sea that would inundate coastlines too rapidly for humanity to adjust; extreme heat waves, droughts and floods; and a large-scale extinction of plants and animals. “What’s extremely clear is that there’s a risk, a very significant risk,” Dr. Molina said by telephone from Mexico, where he spends part of his time. “You don’t need 100 percent certainty for society to act.” Some of the scientists on Dr. Molina’s committee like to point out that people can be pretty intelligent about managing risk in their personal lives. It is unlikely that your house will burn down, yet you spend hundreds of dollars a year on insurance. When you drive to work in the morning, the odds are low that some careless driver will slam into you, but it is possible, so we have spent tens of billions of dollars putting seatbelts and air bags in our cars. Advertisement The issue of how much to spend on lowering greenhouse gases is, in essence, a question about how much insurance we want to buy against worst-case outcomes. Scientists cannot decide that for us — and the report recognizes that by avoiding any specific recommendations about what to do. But it makes clear that lowering emissions, by some means, is the only way to lower the risks. Because so many people are confused about the science, the nation has never really had a frank political discussion about the options. Only a few decades ago, the world confronted a similar question regarding chemicals called chlorofluorocarbons, then common in refrigerators, air-conditioners, cans of hair spray and deodorant. At a Fort Lauderdale, Fla., conference in 1972, a California scientist named F. Sherwood Rowland learned that they were accumulating in the air. What, he wondered, would happen to them? He eventually put a young researcher in his laboratory, Dr. Molina, onto the question. To their own shock, the team figured out that the chemicals would break down the ozone layer, a blanket of gas high above the ground that protects the world from devastating levels of ultraviolet radiation. As the scientific evidence of a risk accumulated, the public demanded action — and eventually got it, in the form of a treaty phasing out the compounds. Global warming has been much harder to understand, not least because of a disinformation campaign financed by elements of the fossil-fuel industry. But the new report is a recognition among scientists that they bear some responsibility for the confusion — that their well-meaning attempts to convey all the nuances and uncertainties of a complex field have obscured the core message about risks. The report reflects their resolve to try again, by clearing the clutter. Will the American people hear the message this time? A version of this article appears in print on March 18, 2014, on page D1 of the New York edition with the headline: Scientists Sound Alarm on Climate. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe See More » Go to Home Page »
Sports   The Mathematician vs. the Matildas. Channels & Shows Home Search Sports Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Sports The Mathematician vs. the Matildas By Taige Jensen and Ben Laffin | Mar. 18, 2014 | 3:37 A math professor from Davidson College and four young girls from the Broadway show “Matilda the Musical” share how they chose their brackets for the N.C.A.A. men’s basketball tournament. Related: article: Plenty of Ways to Try for a Billion-Dollar Prize Show More PlaylistUp Next in Sports Next →   The Royal Family1:33 Prince Harry Promotes Invictus Games   Europe0:60 Police Accept Blame for Hillsborough Disaster   Europe0:46 Families Sing After Hillsborough Ruling   Sports1:24 UConn Reflects on Record-Breaking Win   News Clips: Sports2:20 John John Florence Wins ‘the Eddie’   Sports1:51 ‘Human Sacrifice’: Debating Football’s Future   Blood and Sport3:32 Ken Stabler and C.T.E.   Sports5:01 Addicted to a Fantasy   Paris Attacks1:51 French Soccer Team Sings National Anthem   Sports6:27 Drone Racing Dreams © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Travel   North Carolina Beer Month Is Near. Advertisement North Carolina Beer Month, celebrating the state’s 100 breweries and scheduled for April, is going to get an early start. On March 29, White Street Brewing in Wake Forest hosts NC Brewers Collaborative, featuring barrel-aged and wild ales from breweries around the state, plus panel discussions on barrel-aging and the latest trends in the state, which is ranked 10th nationwide in the number of breweries, with the most of any state east of Texas and south of Pennsylvania. Events planned throughout April include beer dinners, new brew releases and lodging specials, along with mountain getaway discounts in Brevard, to the west. In Kinston, in the eastern part of the state, Beer Weekend, April 3 to 5, features a beer dinner at Chef & the Farmer with Mother Earth Brewing, a Brews Cruise down the Neuse River, and a downtown Barbecue, Oysters & Beer Bash. Two celebrations take place April 26: the all-local Brewgaloo Festival in Raleigh and, a few hours to the west, Hickory Hops hosts some 55 North Carolina microbreweries and the Carolinas Championship of Beer. At the end of the month, the winner of the Brewmaster Experience Sweepstakes will get two nights at Aloft Charlotte Uptown, a $500 Visa gift card and two days working with staff at NoDa Brewing Co. to create a 10-gallon batch of beer for its NoDable series. In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
U.S.   Los Angeles Mayor on Airport Report. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Video Los Angeles Mayor on Airport Report Mar. 19, 2014 | 1:06 Mayor Eric Garcetti of Los Angeles commented on a report released about the emergency response to last year’s shooting at Los Angeles International Airport. Show More PlaylistUp Next in Video Next → Op-Docs: Season 5 9:23 I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked   Video1:08 Hitting all the Right Notes Op-Docs: Season 5 13:33 Manufacturing China’s Future Op-Docs: Season 5 6:05 Fashion vs. Art   Video0:56 Excerpt: ‘The Father’   Video0:33 Excerpt: ‘Exit Strategy’ Op-Docs: Season 5 7:19 A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race   Video1:58 Excerpt: ‘Antlia Pneumatica’   News Clips: Europe1:20 Officials React to Panama Papers   News Clips: Europe3:47 Mossack Fonseca on Data Leak © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Business   Sixty-Five Minutes. Advertisement By Victor Barocas Mar 20, 2014 The New York Times Crossword is available through subscription only. THURSDAY’S PUZZLE — Sixty-five minutes. That’s how long it took me to figure this puzzle out. I did this mainly by staring at the grid, occasionally frowning deeply at it in order to scare it into submission. I worked the clues one at a time, not really sure why some had only dashes (in the print version, these clues are combined), and crawled my way through a Thursday puzzle. Thursday puzzles are supposed to bring light and joy. This puzzle, for me, highlights the observation that some puzzles are experimental, more than anything. Maybe you had better luck. So, here’s what we have: the theme Victor Barocas offers us today, as far as I can tell, has to do with phrases that contain the word GET. From there, we have instructions in the clues that tell us what we can do with the GET (Nobody say anything. I’m not done yet) . Now, I have solved a lot of crossword puzzles in my time, but this one frustrated me. From one theme entry to another, I had no idea what to expect, which decreased my ability to gain a toehold in this grid by, I don’t know, a whole lot. Sure, go ahead, experiment on the crossword form. But please, don’t take my Thursday solving joy away. This did not feel like a Thursday to me. I got stuck on the very first theme entry at 18 Across. I got PATE GURNER ( a “Gripping read”) from the crossings, and thought there might be some Spoonerisms going on. Fair enough. Who doesn’t love a good Spoonerism? I did not spy the word GET at that point. See that “Get back!” in brackets after the clue? Read GET backwards in the entry, like so: PATE GURNER. From there, the GETs git going all sorts of ways, including not even being there, which really threw me for a loop. I wondered why that last entry, A BRID OO FAR had the T on top. If the GET is simply “lost”, why curve the TOO? Is it because the entry itself starts to wander off? [3/20/14 UPDATE: In the original post, I accidentally listed the entry as A BRIDGE OO FAR. The correct entry is A BRID OO FAR. I’ve corrected it in my post.] Here are the theme entries, as they are meant to be read: 18 Across “Get back!” = PATE GURNER 24 Across “Get down!” = STORAGE TANKS, with the GET going downward 50 Across “Get up!” = COLLEGE TOWNS, with the GET going upward 61 Across “Get lost!” = A BRIDGE TOO FAR, with the GET removed or “lost” In non-theme news, I loved the entry JEZEBEL, although I, personally, do not think of it as a feminist blog. Your mileage, of course, may vary. So, to recap, it’s perfectly fine to experiment with the crossword form and, in fact, it’s highly encouraged. I just didn’t enjoy this one because the theme kind of got lost on me. Let’s chat with Mr. Barocas: The inspiration for this puzzle came from Matt Gaffney’s meta-puzzles, which I enjoy very much. Every so often, he addresses the solver directly in the puzzle as part of the meta, and although at first I found it strange, it kind of grew on me, so I decided to make a non-meta puzzle that included direct address. I was rather pleased when I realized that the different GET phrases all exist. The big challenge, though, was that GET up and GET down aren’t as symmetric as they feel like they should be, making it quite hard to construct a symmetric grid. I had an idea a couple of years ago for a GET LOST theme that would have the word GET disappear (so GET would be lost) in two entries (e.g., TAR AUDIENCE or FOR ME NOT) and the word LOST appear in two (so they would get LOST). My friend David Hanson suggested JLOSTACOBEAN; neither of us could really figure out what “J. Lo’s taco bean” meant or how to clue it, but it was a terrific find. Sadly, the puzzle never quite got off the ground, but I guess that GET LOST lived on in this one in its own way. As always, I hope that solvers enjoyed the puzzle. Here’s another GET for you — the song of the summer, Daft Punk’s “GET Lucky”: Your thoughts? Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. David Kahn puts us through the wringer.Read more… Emily Cox and Henry Rathvon offer us a challenging cryptic crossword puzzle.Read more… A place for solvers to discuss and ask questions about the “A Little Variety” suite of puzzles.Read more… Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   Image of the Day: March 19. Advertisement India’s national elections began April 7 and will continue on nine separate dates until May 12, with results expected to be announced on May 16. The vote is the world’s largest, with 814 million eligible voters set to choose 543 members of the lower house of Parliament. The other two seats will be appointed by the president. This election is widely considered to be India’s most consequential since 1977. India Ink will be moving to the World page of The New York Times. Read more… A memorial ceremony at the Imphal War Cemetery in Manipur to honor the soldiers who died during World War II.Read more… The newly elected prime minister reaches out to the public in a blog post about his first 30 days in office.Read more… Newborns whose mothers are unable to breastfeed are given stored breast milk to protect them from potentially life-threatening infection.Read more… In the final stage of a long decline, Hindustan Motors announced in May that it would suspend production of the Ambassador, a car that was once synonymous with style and status.Read more… This report on India from the journalists of The New York Times and a pool of talented writers in India and beyond provides unbiased, authoritative reporting on the country and its place in the world. India Ink also strives to be a virtual meeting point for discussion of this complex, fast-changing democracy – its politics, economy, culture and everyday life. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Science   ScienceTake. Channels & Shows Home Search Science Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos See how monkeys teach manners, elephants show empathy and ants imitate water in ScienceTake, combining cutting-edge research from the world of science with stunning footage of the natural world in action. Recent Episodes in ScienceTake ScienceTake Science 1:38 ScienceTake | Itching to Be Popular ScienceTake Science 1:24 Of Spider Bondage, and Cannibalism ScienceTake Science 1:26 ScienceTake | Surfing Beetles ScienceTake Science 1:25 ScienceTake | Teaching Crows ScienceTake Science 1:36 ScienceTake | Flight of the Sea Snail ScienceTake Science 1:19 ScienceTake | How the Stick Walks ScienceTake Science 1:25 ScienceTake | Building a Rescue Roach ScienceTake Science 1:12 ScienceTake | Plants Can Count? ScienceTake Science 1:30 ScienceTake | Carnivore’s Puzzle Box Show more videos from ScienceTake Most Popular 1 Opinion Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics 2 U.S. Obama Delivers Howard’s Commencement 3 Fashion & Style Bill Cunningham | Garden Party 4 Science Why It’s Hard to Keep the Pounds Off 5 U.S. How Will Obama Spend His Retirement? 6 World The Killing of Farkhunda 7 Science Parrots: The Highlight Reel 8 Opinion A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race 9 Health In Love and Loss 10 Food How to Cut Up a Whole Chicken © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Sports   PETA Investigation: Nehro's Feet. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Video PETA Investigation: Nehro's Feet By Justin Sablich | Mar. 20, 2014 | 0:50 The trainer Scott Blasi discussed the poor state of the race horse Nehro’s feet. Despite the horse’s condition, it continued to train. Related: article: PETA Accuses Two Trainers of Cruelty to Horses Show More PlaylistUp Next in Video Next → Op-Docs: Season 5 9:23 I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked   Video1:08 Hitting all the Right Notes Op-Docs: Season 5 13:33 Manufacturing China’s Future Op-Docs: Season 5 6:05 Fashion vs. Art   Video0:56 Excerpt: ‘The Father’   Video0:33 Excerpt: ‘Exit Strategy’ Op-Docs: Season 5 7:19 A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race   Video1:58 Excerpt: ‘Antlia Pneumatica’   News Clips: Europe1:20 Officials React to Panama Papers   News Clips: Europe3:47 Mossack Fonseca on Data Leak © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Travel   A New Cruise on the Loire. Advertisement Europe’s booming river cruise industry has set its sights on the Loire in France, where the M.S. Loire Princesse, the first riverboat with overnight cabins to cruise this river, will launch next year. Though the Loire’s shallow waters have kept larger vessels from being able to navigate the river, CroisiEurope recently unveiled plans to build a sleek new paddle-wheel boat, which requires less draft, to circumvent the issue. It will be the first paddle-wheel to join the company’s fleet of almost 40 riverboats. The 300-foot, three-deck cruiser is to feature a contemporary, ecologically friendly design, with space to accommodate almost 100 passengers, along with a full-size dance floor, lounge, restaurant and balconied cabins. The company also plans to outfit the ship with amenities like Wi-Fi and individually operated heating and air-conditioning units in each cabin. “CroisiEurope has been in business for almost 40 years and is constantly trying to innovate new itineraries to add to its repertoire,” Michel Grimm, the company’s international sales director, said in an email. And though it did have to meet many new technical and environmental requirements, the company was compelled to build a vessel that could operate in the Loire overnight in order to make the region’s specific “cultural experiences” available to its clients, he added. The ship’s six- to eight-day cruises will travel the Pays de la Loire region of France beginning in April 2015, making stops in the communes of Ancenis, Saumur and Bouchemaine, as well as the cities of Angers and Nantes, to visit historic chateaus and Unesco World Heritage sites. In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Business   Learning How to Refine Oils. Advertisement By Brendan Emmett Quigley Mar 21, 2014 The New York Times Crossword is available through subscription only. FRIDAY PUZZLE — This, in my opinion, was a nice Friday offering. A bit of a wrestle, a little stretching, a few gimmes, and sooner rather than later the puzzle is solved. Also, Brendan Emmett Quigley makes a clean puzzle and fills it with some very interesting stuff. If you haven’t seen the most recent episode of the “BETWEEN TWO FERNS” web series hosted by the actor Zach Galifianakis on the “Funny Or Die” channel, you can watch it here. Whatever your political leanings, it’s a funny interview that gets off to a hilarious start by billing the president as “Barack Obama (sp?), Community Organizer”. The title of the series has been in the news precisely because of this interview and, as Mr. Quigley says below, the fact that it was a 15-letter entry and brand new makes it a particularly fun discovery for a constructor. There are quite a few (not quite whopping, but close) unique entries here, in fact. ART MAJOR also gets Clue of the Day from me because of the wonderful misdirection of the clue (“One learning how to refine oils?”) and because The Girl is an ART MAJOR who happens to be doing a lot of painting right now. I also loved DO IT BY THE BOOK, SNOWDEN, who makes a debut as Edward SNOWDEN today, but was in a New York Times puzzle back in 1987 as the British statesman, and the fabulous looking and sounding instrument the CRUMHORN. I didn’t know about Sir Henry BESSEMER, but he was a big name in steel. So much good stuff in here, and that long central Down was fabulous. How does Mr. Quigley feel about it? Let’s find out. In my job, discovering a new name in the news is 15 letters is the equivalent of a religious experience. Well said, sir. Your thoughts? Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. David Kahn puts us through the wringer.Read more… Emily Cox and Henry Rathvon offer us a challenging cryptic crossword puzzle.Read more… A place for solvers to discuss and ask questions about the “A Little Variety” suite of puzzles.Read more… Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   What’s in Veterans Affairs’ $164 Billion Budget?. Advertisement The secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs, Eric K. Shinseki, last week, outlined President Obama’s 2015 budget for the department before hearings of the House and Senate veterans affairs committees, calling for total spending of $163.9 billion, a 6.5 percent increase from last year. The plan asks Congress to allocate $68.4 billion for discretionary spending, a 3 percent increase from last year, which is largely used for health care, and $95.6 billion for mandatory programs such as disability compensation and pensions for veterans. Mr. Shinseki said he wants the spending to address three major goals: the continued expansion of health care access and other benefits for both new and aging veterans, ending homelessness among veterans and clearing the extensive backlog of disability claims. Clearing the backlog – defined as disability claims that have taken 125 days or longer to process – remains a benchmark that the department struggles to reach. Though the backlog has decreased in the last year, to just under 370,000 claims, veterans groups continue to criticize the department for its inability to eliminate the delays. And the work continues to grow. According Mr. Shinseki, 1.5 million new compensation and pension claims are expected to be filed in 2015, an increase of 20 percent over 2014. Spending directed at ending homelessness, one of Mr. Shinseki’s personal priorities, will increase by 14 percent, to $1.6 billion. In particular, spending for the National Call Center for Homeless Veterans, a hotline developed in 2010 as part of Mr. Shinseki’s plan to end homelessness by the end of 2015, would increase by 45 percent to $5.6 million. Mr. Shinseki, who was appointed by President Obama in 2009, drew fire at the Senate hearing on two of the department’s toughest issues: providing adequate care to veterans who suffer from traumatic brain injury and post-traumatic stress, and expanding access to services for veterans in rural areas. Senator Bernie Sanders, an Independent from Vermont and the chairman of the Senate committee, probed Mr. Shinseki and his under secretary for health, Dr. Robert Petzel, on the department’s ability to respond to the fast-growing need for mental health services. “We are dealing now with hundreds of thousands of men and women who have come home from Iraq and Afghanistan who are dealing with traumatic brain injury and PTSD,” Senator Sanders said. “Are we making progress?” “This is a tough area for us,” Mr. Shinseki replied. “We are putting $7 billion against mental health, we have a separate funding line for traumatic brain injuries and we do research in this area.” That research, which takes place largely at five polytrauma centers run by the department across the country, would receive $580 million in direct appropriations as well as an additional $1.3 billion from the department’s medical care program under the president’s budget. “Budgeting,” Mr. Shinseki confessed, “is a little bit reactive. We look at what showed up at our medical facilities and we ask for resources to take care of the next population. We are working with DoD (Department of Defense) to try to anticipate what our requirements are going to be, just writ-large, and trying to understand what the mental health piece of that is.” A need for increased collaboration between the departments of Defense and Veterans Affairs is precisely what veteran advocacy groups have identified as being at the crux of the larger issue. Alex Nicholson, Legislative Director for Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America, believes that many of the issues facing veterans today could be addressed more quickly through broader cooperation between government entities. “The problem is not just a V.A. problem,” explained Mr. Nicholson in a phone interview last week. “And, the fix is not just a V.A. fix.” As the Defense Department continues reducing troop levels and the number of new veterans continues to grow, many veterans wonder if veterans affairs can significantly reduce homelessness, tame the backlog and expand mental health services. “Frankly, we’ve been at war for over a decade and we have small professional formations, smaller than when I served, who have carried this responsibility for carrying on these two operational missions now for this long,” Mr. Shinseki said before the Senate committee. “Because of the size of the force, they are rotated a number of times, multiple times, and we compound the issues, especially in mental health.” He added: “We owe these youngsters the best we can provide.” Jacob W. Sotak served in the United States Army Reserve for 10 years, including a tour in Afghanistan. He graduated from Dartmouth College and now works as a news assistant at The New York Times. Follow him on Twitter: @JWSotak At War is a reported blog from Afghanistan, Pakistan, Iraq and other conflicts in the post-9/11 era. The New York Times's award-winning team provides insight — and answers questions — about combatants on the faultlines, and civilians caught in the middle. The New York Times has established an education fund for the children of Sultan Munadi, an Afghan journalist who was slain in Afghanistan in 2009. Learn more about him and how you can contribute here. » Marine Corps Captain Calum Rammhe, a longtime marathon runner, ran seven marathons on seven continents in seven days to raise money for a charity that supports wounded Marines and their families. It also let him reflect on why running is more than a hobby for him. Read more… A physical therapist describes the powerful bonds she formed with the wounded veterans and her fellow physical and occupational therapists at the Walter Reed Army Medical Center. Read more… A former Marine Corps officer argues that good leadership makes all the difference in smoothing the integration of women into combat units. Read more… Hundreds of letters from an Army private named Harold Grove Moss, whose tour of duty spanned Pearl Harbor to the surrender of Japan, have been transcribed and posted online by his daughter. Read more… A Vietnam-era veteran says presidential candidates should not be judged harshly just because they did not serve during that war. Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Home   Meet Me in Chicago. Advertisement Advertisement By JESSE McKINLEYMARCH 19, 2014 CHICAGO — It seemed like such a simple question. “What can you tell me about your trivet?” I asked, sounding like someone inquiring about a doctor for a sick oak. The French saleswoman looked perplexed. “Tree-vet?” she said. “What is a tree-vet?” The scene of my confusion — and hers — was the International Home and Housewares Show in Chicago, an annual four-day extravaganza of home goods (and bads); consumer gadgets and gizmos, and kitchen, bath and living-room accessories. Oh yes, and trivets, which I soon discovered was a fancy word for “elevated hot pad,” and rhymes with “rivet.” The trivet in question was a nifty silicon model unveiled by the Paris-based Mastrad, one of thousands of exhibitors from across the world vying for attention at the show, which wrapped up on Tuesday at McCormick Place, the city’s giant lakeside convention center. Ignorance of kitchen lingo, mind you, does not preclude a visitor from enjoying the show’s strange brew of new ideas, oddball innovations and other hints of the zeitgeist of the American homestead. This year those trends seemed to include, among other things, a desperate demand for ever-brighter colored pots, pans and espresso makers; a sudden uptick in women’s grooming products; and the ongoing battle between various juicers and smoothie makers, even as they confronted a counterintuitive challenger: the dehydrator. Ice balls, as opposed to cubes, were big (Zoku has a new device for making them), as was anything with grip-technology (like the new concave cutting boards from Architec). And if the show was any measure, the nation also seems to be suffering from a dire shortage of ground pepper: booths at McCormick were lined with hundreds of kinds of pepper grinders — sleek, tall, hand-operated, battery-powered — a roster that included a two-and-half-inch model, the David, from the German company Ad Hoc, and a three-foot-high monster known as the Princess, from Chef Specialties in Pennsylvania, which looks as if it could take two people (or two princesses) to operate. Advertisement Luckily, I had backup. My girlfriend, Sarah, had traveled from her home in San Francisco to Chicago on the kind of mission undertaken by everyone from the writer Joseph Conrad to the designer team Joseph Joseph: to understand the nature of man. Or, in Sarah’s case, just one man: me. Much of the gear in my Albany home, after all, never graduated from college. My plates and bowls are mismatched; my cookware and pots are stained; my hand towels and flatware, mismatched and stained. Coffee, wine and spaghetti sauce are major culprits, but I also have a passion for making soup. Very, very sloppy soup. Sarah, meanwhile, has elegant kitchenware: forks and knives that resemble one another, and grown-up things like stemware, cloth place mats and the aforementioned trivets. “I like to surround myself with things I love,” she says simply, a category that fortunately usually includes me. So it was that Sarah agreed to accompany me, to help train my eye for new stuff and to entertain herself with what is essentially an exercise in extreme window shopping. The show is geared toward wholesale and retail buyers, not casual shoppers, although many of the products are either debuting or coming soon to a retailer near you. It draws 60,000 participants, from major players like Costco to small dreamers like Maia Ming Fong, a Barcelona-based artist whose delicate black-and-white teapots ($95 with two cups) were in a tiny booth at the back of one of the giant convention halls. Indeed, discovering little treats is the fun of the show, as is finding clever things like the Clip & Drain, a clip-on colander from a company called Chef’s Planet that allows dads like me to strain pasta with one hand while clutching the remote in the other. We started our trek on Saturday morning with a stop at Garnier-Thiebaut, the esteemed French linen maker, which recently introduced its Rue Montmartre collection with a brighter, more graphic design presumably to appeal to jaunty Americans. Sarah, however, is a traditionalist (her underused microwave basically doubles as a breadbox), and she preferred the classic look of the company’s City collection: tablecloths with gentle grays and subtle geometric patterns. Better yet, all the City designs are treated to resist stains, a major bonus for a man prone to spillage. (Did I mention my hand towels?) The next stop was decidedly lower-brow: kitchen mats ($29.99 to $69.99 each), the subject of a soft-focus makeover by Comfort Co., an offshoot of Sleep Innovations, which estimates that the average person spends 90 minutes a day standing up in the kitchen. Hence the “anti-fatigue” mats, which can be disguised with a variety of patterned covers. As boring as mats may be, the booth was popular, if only as a pit stop for foot-weary visitors, many of whom walk miles during the show. Advertisement “We get people that linger,” said Barry Jacobs, a Sleep Innovations official. Sure enough, midday meant a need for coffee (me) and tea (Sarah). Coffee accouterments are a staple of the Chicago show, but this year, tea seemed to be gaining steam — in the is-this-really-necessary category as well. Take the Teafu, for example, an infuser that resembles a pair of tongs with a soft plastic beak that promises to make your tea ... faster! (You can almost hear the ad: “Because the price of waiting is just too steep.”) Sarah is considerably more patient, hence the survival of our relationship, and preferred the basic beauty of the tin tea containers made by the Japanese company Kotodo. Covered in paper made from mulberry trees, with patterns that featured small shells and floral motifs, the containers sell for $5.80 to $59.80. A similarly quiet ethos was on display in the wares of another Japanese company, Kinto, whose Atelier collection of ceramic and porcelain bowls came in an array of pastels and earthen tones. For bigger bowls, we headed over to the Boska booth, which was introducing what it called the “biggest fondue set ever sold.” With three flame burners, the Party Fondue Mr. Big ($400) holds nearly two gallons of cheese. “It doubles as a baby bath,” Matt Zagorski, the company’s national sales manager, told us. I was fascinated: so much cheese. But Sarah preferred the smaller square containers ($30 to $40), as well as the cheese curler (starting at $49.99) designed to shave a thin, twisty layer off any semisoft fromage. “It makes cheese actually interact with people,” Mr. Zagorski said mysteriously. Advertisement Interacting with your food was the idea behind the products made by a Connecticut firm called iDevices, which is committed to using smartphones to save America from undercooked pork and desiccated turkey. The iGrill 2 (available in May for about $100) is a thermometer that uses four small probes to allow users to control how their meat is done — rare, medium, etc. — and then sends them a cellphone alert when the meat is ready. (Note: You do not place your smartphone in the oven with the thermometer.) The iGrill 2 was in the show’s Wired and Well expo, along with other high-tech innovations including the latest entrant in our nation’s 90-year quest for the perfect blender: the new Blendtec 725 ($649). It promises 100 speeds and a near mercenary efficiency, a case the company made with a splashy video, underscored with rave music, depicting the blocky machine destroying an orange in slow-mo. (Watching the carnage, we couldn’t decide if the company loved fruits, or really hated them.) Cater-corner to the Blendtec booth, a company called Kuvings was selling a slow juicer, made for people “too busy to juice,” but with enough time to watch a vegetable being masticated by its languorous blades. Slower still was a new line of food dehydrators from Excalibur, a Florida company, all of which have a 26-hour timer (not 24 hours, mind you: 26) and aim to capitalize on what the company sees as a healthy need for less liquid in food. As a rep with the company told me, “Dehydrating is getting huge.” Advertisement Sarah’s attention, meanwhile, was drawn to a different gadget: the Emjoi Micro-Pedi machine, which alleviated a tough spot on one of her now aching feet in less time than it took the Blendtec 725 to flog an orange. The handy little device (about $70) was one of dozens of women’s products — curlers, dryers, foot baths — that jumped into the market this year, perhaps signaling the resurgence of American women as primary breadwinners. As we went along, Sarah had been gently offering a few suggestions (including a lovely little dustpan, the Tiny Team from Full Circle, which mixed bamboo and plastic) and discouraging overkill, like the knife-sanitizing system for Pure Living that promised to use UV rays to kill germs. So far, though, I had yet to discover anything that (in Sarah’s words) I just loved. Until she took me, ever so casually, by the booth for Mauviel 1830, the copper cookware company that has been making kitchenware since, you know, 1830. The company was unveiling several new products, including a lovely sauté pan ($425) and a bain-marie ($300), another word, like trivet, that I had never heard before. But my eyes were drawn in another direction: a gleaming stockpot sitting quietly on the shelf. With a hammered copper exterior, it had a kind of rosy glow, reflecting the show’s lights this way and that. I was entranced, and smitten, by both the pot and my partner’s reasons for bringing me there. “I thought you could make soup,” Sarah said, sweetly. At $775, the pot cost about a month’s rent in Albany, but I quietly put it on my list of things to buy eventually. That, of course, and something nice for my girlfriend. A version of this article appears in print on March 20, 2014, on page D1 of the New York edition with the headline: Meet Me in Chicago. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Movies   This Week’s Movies. Channels & Shows Home Search Culture Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos The ultimate film lover’s guide: The Times critics A.O. Scott, Manohla Dargis and Stephen Holden offer their picks for the week’s best movies, from blockbusters to hidden gems. Recent Episodes in This Week’s Movies This Week’s Movies Culture 3:14 This Week’s Movies | April 8, 2016 This Week’s Movies Culture 3:34 This Week’s Movies | April 1, 2016 This Week’s Movies Culture 3:20 This Week’s Movies | March 25, 2016 This Week’s Movies Culture 3:33 This Week’s Movies: March 18, 2016 This Week’s Movies Culture 3:07 This Week’s Movies | March 11, 2016 This Week’s Movies Culture 3:03 This Week’s Movies | March 4, 2016 This Week’s Movies Culture 3:15 This Week’s Movies | Feb. 26, 2016 This Week’s Movies Culture 3:19 This Week’s Movies | Feb. 19, 2016 This Week’s Movies Culture 3:11 This Week’s Movies | Feb. 12, 2016 Show more videos from This Week’s Movies Most Popular 1 Opinion Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics 2 U.S. Obama Delivers Howard’s Commencement 3 Fashion & Style Bill Cunningham | Garden Party 4 Science Why It’s Hard to Keep the Pounds Off 5 U.S. How Will Obama Spend His Retirement? 6 World The Killing of Farkhunda 7 Science Parrots: The Highlight Reel 8 Opinion A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race 9 Health In Love and Loss 10 Food How to Cut Up a Whole Chicken © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Science   Living With Cancer: The Cost of Trials Sign Up for the Running Email. Advertisement Susan Gubar writes about life with ovarian cancer. A recent CT scan made me realize that the clinical trial extending my life effectively excludes all but the most privileged cancer patients. I used to weasel out of scans. Chalk it up to trepidation about radiation and possible kidney damage, along with paranoid suspicions that such scans don’t yield definitive pictures. My oncologist and I had agreed to fudge on frequent testing. But the clinical trial did not. When I registered for the CT, a woman wearing a badge that read “financial navigator” handed me the requisite forms to sign. I explained that the CT should be billed to the Phase I trial, since I was undergoing it so the investigators could measure the efficacy of their drug. Unable to reach the trial administrator by phone, she asked, “Can we put it down as a self-pay since you can change it afterwards?” The clock was ticking. I would need to start drinking the gallons of what I call Kool-Aid, the drink that people under 140 pounds need to gulp during the two hours before an abdominal CT. I knew that I had to concede but wanted to know how much it would cost. “Oh,” she replied, “I couldn’t say.” I signed the form and, after receiving the paper bracelet, trudged down to the basement and began the long haul of swilling and waiting. The Kool-Aid — in science-speak, the gastrografin contrast solution — brought to mind my friend Judy, vomiting the barium milkshake she had to ingest in a different hospital. It was impossible to keep down, she reported, but her oncologist insisted on it. I touted the less viscous Kool-Aid and she asked a hospital radiologist who replied, “Sure, you could try that instead.” We shook our heads in disbelief at his nonchalance. Running repeatedly to the bathroom, I thanked my lucky stars that I did not need to take the drugs prescribed for people with allergic reactions to this test. The CT would be brief and painless, I knew, and therefore none of the anxiety of the first few scans plagued me as the technician accompanied me down the hall to the scanner. “I can’t tell when I can get a nurse to access your port,” she said, positioning me on the narrow plank facing the gaping mouth of the huge machine. “There were massive cutbacks two months ago. Would you rather wait or have me stick you?” At least I was fully clothed while making this decision. Praying a vein would work, I eyed the triangular bar hanging from a pulley over my head while the technician established a line and took cover in another room. The conveyor belt moved me so deep into the bowels of the cave-like mechanism that the overhead metal bar, which I clutched with upraised hands, clanged against it. Only my head remained just outside of the giant doughnut. “Take a breath and hold,” a mechanical female voice said. Did they change it to a male voice for men? I wondered. Conveyed back out, I heard, “Breathe.” Through the IV line, the technician injected another contrast agent that, she told me, would give me an awful taste in my mouth and make me feel as if I were wetting my pants, and then the process was repeated. “Take a breath and hold.” “Breathe.” After the technician removed the needle in my arm, I limped out of the hospital determined to control my nausea with peppermint. Although I had not eaten for some 20 hours, I asked my husband to stop the car on the way home only to use a gas station restroom. The nausea I had felt that day returned some time later when I received a bill for $4,567. Because standard practice of care for recurrent ovarian cancer includes a CT every three months, the trial did not cover the cost of this scan. At registration, I had been thinking in terms of the trial paying or me paying. Instead of saying “self-pay,” I should have handed the “financial navigator” my insurance cards. Adjustments would have to be made with billing services. My mistake at registration revealed the exorbitant price of the CT, which otherwise would have been masked by the incomprehensible maze of paperwork sent by providers. The trial exacts large expenses: it requires that people have periodic scans and does not pay for them. How could patients who are under-insured or not insured at all be included in such a clinical trial? How could people working for the minimum wage afford $18,268 a year for CTs? If the trial were in a remote hospital, travel and lodging would raise that price tag, as would the need to take days off from work for recurrent blood tests. Now I understand why low-income patients are underrepresented in cancer trials, although they bear a disproportionate burden of cancer mortality. For economic status is of course a barrier not only to trials but also, more alarmingly, to detection and treatment. I made the call to billing services. I took a breath and got put on hold. Susan Gubar is a distinguished emerita professor of English at Indiana University and the author of “Memoir of a Debulked Woman,” which explores her experience with ovarian cancer. Your health questions answered by Times journalists and experts. Your Questions | All » Get Well's Running email for practical tips, expert advice, exclusive content and a bit of motivation delivered to your inbox every week to help you on your running journey. Coming soon. How much do you know about the amazing things that go on in your gut? Take our quiz to find out about the creepy, crawly critters living in your home. What surface is the most friendly to the flu virus? Where’s the best place to stand when you’re talking to a sick person? How does sleep affect health, relationships and well-being? The “Reading the Mind in the Eyes Test” measures ability to understand others’ emotional states. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   Yankees’ Kelly Johnson Focuses on Playing Third, Not Replacing Alex Rodriguez. Advertisement Advertisement By PETER KERASOTISMARCH 20, 2014 LAKE BUENA VISTA, Fla. — There are two holes to fill in the Yankees’ infield, and two questions are always asked about them. Who is going to replace Robinson Cano at second base? And who is going to play third base? Alex Rodriguez is rarely mentioned, as if he were not even a Yankee the past 10 seasons, much less one who hit 309 home runs during that time. The perception is not that Kelly Johnson is replacing Rodriguez. It is more that he is going to be the next Yankees third baseman. And Johnson is fine with that. “No, no,” Johnson said, shaking his head at the mere idea that he is replacing Rodriguez, who is serving a season-long suspension for using performance-enhancing drugs. “I don’t look at it like that. It doesn’t even cross my mind. And I don’t mean that in any disrespect. But that, to me, is not the case. And no one has said it’s the case, so it’s not anything that I would ever perceive, nor would I ever create that perception. I’m here to do what I can do, do my job, and that’s all I can worry about.” Johnson, 32, is an eight-year major league veteran. He has played in 1,051 games, but only 16 at third base. All 16 of those games came last season, when he played for Tampa Bay, occasionally filling in for Evan Longoria. He has been a career second baseman, but the Yankees have Brian Roberts, who, like Johnson, was an off-season free-agent signing, playing that position. Advertisement Johnson has been a fast learner, which was the Yankees’ hope when they signed him. He started at third base again Wednesday, going 0 for 2 with a walk and a run scored in the Yankees’ 7-0 win against the Atlanta Braves. The game lowered Johnson’s spring training batting average to .258, almost identical to his career .253 average. But the Yankees, in many ways, are not looking for another Rodriguez. They are looking for a third baseman who can field cleanly, hit a bit and stay healthy. They once had a player like that: Scott Brosius. Brosius, a career .257 hitter with the same type of occasional power as Johnson, spent four seasons with the Yankees. In three of them, 1998 through 2000, the team won the World Series. In Rodriguez’s 10 years, often filled with drama and occasionally with acrimony, the Yankees won one Series. Rather than copy a page from recent history, the Yankees have flipped back to what worked for them 15 years ago. Third base is a new position for Johnson, and he has been busy most mornings on the back fields of the Yankees’ spring training complex, working with Mick Kelleher, the team’s de facto infield instructor. “He’s picked it up real fast,” Kelleher said. “I think he’s confident. He likes the position. We’ve done a lot of early work this spring. His learning curve has been pretty rapid. We’ve covered a lot of stuff, and he has picked it up very well. I was surprised, because it’s a very difficult position to play.” There are intricacies to the position beyond the obvious — angles, reaction time, throwing distance and the like. “When you shift to a new spot, it comes with new responsibilities,” Johnson said. “At third base, you’re also responsible for bunts; there are cutoffs, relays, little nuances. I’m working hard.” Advertisement So far, the Yankees like what they see. Manager Joe Girardi stopped short of saying Johnson would be the everyday third baseman, but he said, “He’s going to play a lot; let’s put it that way.” Girardi added that before camp, the Yankees had weighed the idea of a third-base platoon. Johnson is a left-handed hitter, and Eduardo Nunez, a natural shortstop who has gained experience at third base, hits from the right side. “We kind of thought a little bit about that going into the season, when we signed Kelly,” Girardi said of a possible platoon. “But his at-bats have been good against right-handers and left-handers.” So the position continues to look like Johnson’s, with little mention of the superstar player who preceded him there. INSIDE PITCH Ivan Nova had his strongest outing of spring training, throwing six and a third innings of two-hit ball against the Braves, striking out five and walking none. Nova, 25, said he was feeling more comfortable as a major league pitcher, although he stopped short of saying he was a veteran. Nova offered an exchange he had with the pitching coach Larry Rothschild earlier in the week as an indication that he was maturing: “Larry said, ‘What are we going to work on?’ I told him, ‘Keeping my ball down.’ He said: ‘Wow. I remember you used to say, I don’t know; you tell me.’ ” ... Derek Jeter, who continues to receive warm applause in opposing stadiums, was 0 for 4, lowering his spring batting average to .132. Joe Girardi said he was not concerned. “My guess is that he’s not going to panic either way,” Girardi said. “I think the important thing is that he just feels good, and if he feels good, he’ll be in a good place.” ... Jacoby Ellsbury continued to nurse a tight right calf, and he will again sit Thursday, pushing the number of days that he has been unavailable to five. In his place against the Braves, the rookie Adonis Garcia knocked in two runs with a double. Go to Home Page »
Travel   Sierra Club Trips for Younger Travelers. Advertisement In order to take more young people into the wilderness and bring them onto its membership rolls, the Sierra Club is offering trips (some with discounts) that it hopes will entice the 30-and-under crowd. In addition to its usual lineup, the legacy environmental activist group with a long history of leading outdoor tours is publicizing a variety of domestic trips for younger participants, including backpacking, service trips, and multisport samplers. Some are run by their “more youthful leaders,” according to an announcement sent to members, or timed to coincide with holiday weekends, while others are tailored for anyone on a budget. While in the past, the Sierra Club was the go-to organization for people of all ages looking to visit wild areas and learn backpacking and outdoor skills, more options are now available with sites like Meetup and the growth in the adventure travel market, said a Sierra spokesman, Jason Halal. As a result, he said, Sierra’s demographics over the last couple decades have shifted toward retirees and baby boomers. Along with younger leaders and lower prices, this year Sierra Club is offering a “Young Adventurers Fund,” where those 18 to 30 can take $300 off of trips, such as a multisport sampler in Hawaii and several hikes in California, including a 20s-and-30s-only outing to Yosemite that touts youthful camaraderie, vegetarian meal options, and happy hours. A version of this article appears in print on 03/30/2014, on page TR3 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Outdoors: Young Faces in the Wilderness. In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
U.S.   Army General Speaks Out After Sentencing. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Video Army General Speaks Out After Sentencing Mar. 20, 2014 | 0:11 Brig. Gen. Jeffrey A. Sinclair gave a statement outside the courthouse at Fort Bragg, N.C., after the conclusion of the sentencing phase of his sexual misconduct trial. Related: article: Sexual Misconduct Case Ends With No Jail Time for General Show More PlaylistUp Next in Video Next → Op-Docs: Season 5 9:23 I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked   Video1:08 Hitting all the Right Notes Op-Docs: Season 5 13:33 Manufacturing China’s Future Op-Docs: Season 5 6:05 Fashion vs. Art   Video0:56 Excerpt: ‘The Father’   Video0:33 Excerpt: ‘Exit Strategy’ Op-Docs: Season 5 7:19 A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race   Video1:58 Excerpt: ‘Antlia Pneumatica’   News Clips: Europe1:20 Officials React to Panama Papers   News Clips: Europe3:47 Mossack Fonseca on Data Leak © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Business   Signs of Things to Come. Advertisement By Greg Johnson Mar 22, 2014 The New York Times Crossword is available through subscription only. SATURDAY’S PUZZLE — Well, this was a zippy outing. With entries like FLEW BY and RAN ALONG, how could you not solve this puzzle by Greg Johnson at a relatively fast clip? I jumped around on this one, and was RED HOT until I got to 5 Down. I had never heard of using the word BORAX as a slang term to describe “cheap, shoddy merchandise”, but apparently it was used in the 1920s when makers of BORAX-laced soap offered coupons for cheap furniture with soap purchases. Once again, I’d like to thank The Boy for reminding me that it is MARIO the plumber who rescues Princess Peach in the famous Nintendo Games, and I really liked GRAPE JELLY (yum!), ZIP DRIVE and ED WOOD. ZOO EXHIBIT, while crunchy as an entry, made me sad, especially clued as “One often behind bars”. Let’s catch up with Mr. Johnson and his unusual method for constructing puzzles: This is my second New York Times acceptance and first themeless … I constructed portions of it on my cellphone on a forklift at work. Not while moving, of course. I like GRAPE JELLY, ZOO EXHIBIT and JUMBO. Thought about cluing JUMBO with reference to bologna, but I think that’s mainly a Pittsburgh thing [Click here for more lessons in ‘Pittsburghese’ — D.A.] Especially square jumbo. Leave a comment if I am incorrect about that. Until next time, thanks. Thank you, and hope to see more from you again soon. Your thoughts? Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. David Kahn puts us through the wringer.Read more… Emily Cox and Henry Rathvon offer us a challenging cryptic crossword puzzle.Read more… A place for solvers to discuss and ask questions about the “A Little Variety” suite of puzzles.Read more… Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Food   Melissa Clark. Channels & Shows Home Search Food Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos The author and cook Melissa Clark takes you into her kitchen to show you how easy it can be to make exquisite and delicious meals. Recent Episodes in Melissa Clark Melissa Clark Food 2:58 Chocolate Babka Melissa Clark Food 2:38 Baked Fish and Chips Melissa Clark Food 3:03 Chocolate Pavlova with Chocolate Mousse Melissa Clark Food 2:17 Alfajores Melissa Clark Food 1:42 Golden Leek and Potato Soup Melissa Clark Food 2:28 Chocolate Peppermint Bars Melissa Clark Food 1:60 Cheesy Pasta Bake Melissa Clark Food 3:03 Japanese Chicken and Root Vegetable Stew Melissa Clark Food 2:38 Turkish Burned Milk Pudding Show more videos from Melissa Clark Most Popular 1 Opinion Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics 2 U.S. Obama Delivers Howard’s Commencement 3 Fashion & Style Bill Cunningham | Garden Party 4 Science Why It’s Hard to Keep the Pounds Off 5 U.S. How Will Obama Spend His Retirement? 6 World The Killing of Farkhunda 7 Science Parrots: The Highlight Reel 8 Opinion A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race 9 Health In Love and Loss 10 Food How to Cut Up a Whole Chicken © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Foreign   Image of the Day: March 21. Advertisement   India’s national elections began April 7 and will continue on nine separate dates until May 12, with results expected to be announced on May 16. The vote is the world’s largest, with 814 million eligible voters set to choose 543 members of the lower house of Parliament. The other two seats will be appointed by the president. This election is widely considered to be India’s most consequential since 1977. India Ink will be moving to the World page of The New York Times. Read more… A memorial ceremony at the Imphal War Cemetery in Manipur to honor the soldiers who died during World War II.Read more… The newly elected prime minister reaches out to the public in a blog post about his first 30 days in office.Read more… Newborns whose mothers are unable to breastfeed are given stored breast milk to protect them from potentially life-threatening infection.Read more… In the final stage of a long decline, Hindustan Motors announced in May that it would suspend production of the Ambassador, a car that was once synonymous with style and status.Read more… This report on India from the journalists of The New York Times and a pool of talented writers in India and beyond provides unbiased, authoritative reporting on the country and its place in the world. India Ink also strives to be a virtual meeting point for discussion of this complex, fast-changing democracy – its politics, economy, culture and everyday life. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Health   The Weekly Health Quiz. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content The New York Times Health|The Weekly Health Quiz Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go http://nyti.ms/1r1cSDC Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Health The Weekly Health Quiz In the news: sleeping teenagers, house pests and toxic fish. Test your knowledge of this week’s health news. MARCH 20, 2014 Toby Bilanow/The New York Times Related Multimedia The Weekly Health Quiz MARCH 13, 2014 Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Movies   Anatomy of a Scene. Channels & Shows Home Search Culture Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Film directors walk viewers through one scene of their movies, showing the magic, motives and the mistakes from behind the camera. Recent Episodes in Anatomy of a Scene Anatomy of a Scene Culture 1:26 Anatomy of a Scene | ‘Miles Ahead’ Anatomy of a Scene Culture 2:13 Anatomy of a Scene | ‘Midnight Special’ Anatomy of a Scene Culture 3:51 Anatomy of a Scene | ‘Krisha’ Anatomy of a Scene Culture 3:54 Anatomy of a Scene | ‘Triple 9’ Anatomy of a Scene Culture 3:57 Anatomy of a Scene | ‘Race’ Anatomy of a Scene Culture 3:21 Anatomy of a Scene | ‘The Witch’ Anatomy of a Scene Culture 3:08 Anatomy of a Scene | ‘A War’ Anatomy of a Scene Culture 3:19 Anatomy of a Scene | ‘Rams’ Anatomy of a Scene Culture 3:35 Anatomy of a Scene | ‘Son of Saul’ Show more videos from Anatomy of a Scene Most Popular 1 Opinion Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics 2 U.S. Obama Delivers Howard’s Commencement 3 Fashion & Style Bill Cunningham | Garden Party 4 Science Why It’s Hard to Keep the Pounds Off 5 U.S. How Will Obama Spend His Retirement? 6 World The Killing of Farkhunda 7 Science Parrots: The Highlight Reel 8 Opinion A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race 9 Health In Love and Loss 10 Food How to Cut Up a Whole Chicken © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Science   In Many States, Few Legal Rights for C.C.R.C. Residents. Advertisement “I’m not naïve about the corporate world,” Burton Richter told me when we spoke about the class action lawsuit he and other residents are bringing against Vi at Palo Alto, a very upscale continuing care retirement community. Dr. Richter, 83, has served on corporate boards. He directed the Stanford Linear Accelerator Center for 15 years, among his other faculty and administrative positions at the university. And his honors include the Nobel Prize in physics. The five other named plaintiffs in the proposed suit have impressive resumes, too, with an abundance of advanced degrees. Yet when they grasped that Vi’s management had not stashed their sizable entrance fees in a reserve account, “it astounded me and a lot of the residents,” Dr. Richter said. C.C.R.C.s are state regulated, and “there is no consistency from state to state as to what residents’ rights are,” said Katherine Pearson, a Penn State law professor and authority on this type of senior housing. Though such communities come in many configurations — some operate more like rentals, without big upfront fees — buying into a place like the Vi can take most of a resident’s life savings. Yet most state regulations, if they exist at all, emphasize disclosure more than consumer protection. “You can have a financial disclosure law that puts 99 percent of the burden on the resident to understand its significance,” Ms. Pearson said. New York and New Jersey have strong C.C.R.C. regulations, she said; Virginia’s are weak, and California’s have serious gaps. Most don’t require reserve funds for the eventual refunds of entrance fees.  So how can older people who aren’t Nobel laureates, but are contemplating moving into a C.C.R.C., figure out whether a community is financially stable and smoothly run, whether residents’ interests are protected, whether the investment makes sense? The National Continuing Care Residents Association, incorporated in 1999, works to educate prospective residents and increase state oversight. With its 1,200 individual members, nine state associations and 38 member C.C.R.C.s, it probably represents close to 50,000 people, the group’s incoming president, Dan Seeger, estimated. One of its committees has drafted a national residents’ “bill of rights” and expects to present it at the group’s semi-annual meeting in Mystic, Conn., next month. Other committees are working on model laws to increase financial transparency and stability, which they hope state governments will adopt. The association also wants to develop an index of financial solvency, with which prospective residents can compare facilities. “Right now, the average shopper is floundering,” Mr. Seeger said. “This is a vulnerable population that probably believes there’s more government regulation than there is.” Let me direct you to two association websites. The main site contains information about the organization, including a list of state associations. The site informally dubbed NaCCRA U takes a more educational approach. Jack Cumming, an actuary and the group’s research director, has posted scads of videos and consumer guides, research documents and proposals. Neither site is a model of user-friendly navigation; finding the information you want requires some poking around. To see court filings from C.C.R.C. litigation, including the Vi lawsuit, for instance, you need to look under the News tab on the NaCCRA U top menu bar. (Can’t some semi-retired graphic designers and programmers design a snazzier and more serviceable website for these folks?) Nevertheless, novices in the world of C.C.R.C.s can learn a lot from what’s there. “They’re a good group, very committed to C.C.R.C.s and wanting to do things to strengthen the industry,” said Steve Maag, even though he’s often on the other side of the fence as the director of residential communities for Leading Age, which represents nonprofit providers. “The stuff they put out is fairly accurate and well thought out.” Ms. Pearson also recommends an online tool called LifeSite Logics, started by a financial planner and an accountant who operate independently of C.C.R.C. developers and providers. LifeSite delivers financial data for hundreds of C.C.R.C.s — occupancy rates, operating margins, recent fee increases — for about $40 a search. Ms. Pearson discusses and links to LifeSite in a post on the Elder Law Prof Blog, which she writes and edits with other law professors. People who live in these complexes tend to like them. “All of us believe in the C.C.R.C. way of life, the value and usefulness of seniors banding together to mutually help each other meet the contingencies of growing old,” Mr. Seeger said. But C.C.R.C.s essentially offer a form of long-term care insurance, in which seniors pay in advance to have care later on, with much less state regulation than insurance companies face. “In boom times, they make so much sense,” Ms. Pearson said of C.C.R.C.s. “With the slowdown in the economy, these issues have come about.” Now that the recovery means more C.C.R.C.s on drawing boards, she doesn’t want those issues forgotten. Paula Span is the author of “When the Time Comes: Families With Aging Parents Share Their Struggles and Solutions.” The blog is ending, but our coverage of caregiving and aging is not. The New Old Age will run as a twice-monthly column by Paula Span on nytimes.com and frequently in Science Times. Read more… At many nursing homes and assisted living places, a resident’s passing may be hardly noted.Read more… Circumstances had changed, and all these documents needed to change, too. Read more… Lifestyle modification prevents Type 2 diabetes even more effectively in the elderly than in middle-aged patients.Read more… Julianne Moore gives a wonderful performance in “Still Alice,” but the film skirts the truth about dementia.Read more… Thanks to the marvels of medical science, our parents are living longer than ever before. Most will spend years dependent on others for the most basic needs. That burden falls to their baby boomer children. The New Old Age blog explored this unprecedented intergenerational challenge. Paula Span will continue to write New Old Age columns twice monthly at nytimes.com/health and the conversation will continue on Twitter (@paula_span) and Facebook. A few medical institutions have opened their doors to patients’ own dogs and cats. Scheduling and medication errors plague patients with Parkinson's. Dementia doesn't respect public stature. Is there life after caregiving, and if so what it is like? Comprehensive reference and special reports about diseases, conditions, tests, injuries and surgeries. Useful information, tools, and links to organizations around the Web. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   Stung by an Upset a Year Ago, the Aztecs Avoid Another. Advertisement Advertisement By JOHN BRANCHMARCH 21, 2014 SPOKANE, Wash. — San Diego State knew that unsung New Mexico State had upset New Mexico this season. And the Aztecs had spent a year being reminded that they were victims of Florida Gulf Coast’s mesmerizing N.C.A.A. tournament run last March. The Aztecs, seeded fourth in the West Region, barely overcame those worries with a tense 73-69 overtime victory over 13th-seeded New Mexico State on Thursday, advancing to face another upstart team on Saturday. The Aztecs (30-4) will play 12th-seeded North Dakota State, a surprise winner over fifth-seeded Oklahoma. Guard Xavier Thames, the Mountain West Conference’s player of the year, led San Diego State with a game-high 23 points. San Diego State never trailed, and it seemed to have the game in hand with 32 seconds left and a 5-point lead. But New Mexico State’s Renaldo Dixon scored off a missed shot with 15.6 seconds remaining, and San Diego State turned the ball over on the inbounds pass. Advertisement Guard Kevin Aronis missed a 3-point attempt from above the top of the key, but the Aggies got the rebound and gave him another chance. Aronis moved to his left, stopped and drained the tying basket from about 25 feet, well beyond the arc, with six seconds left. Thames’s running shot at the buzzer missed. But his first jump shot in overtime gave the Aztecs the lead again, and they never gave it up. Dwayne Polee II missed a free throw with 6.8 seconds left in overtime and San Diego State clinging to a 70-68 lead. After a timeout, he made the second. Daniel Mullings was fouled with two seconds left, before he could attempt a potential tying 3-pointer. He made the first free throw and missed the second intentionally, hoping the Aggies would get the rebound. But Polee did, and he made two free throws to secure the victory. For most of the game, Thames was more than enough of a counterweight to New Mexico State’s 7-foot-5-inch, 355-pound Sim Bhullar. Bhullar, a sophomore center, scored 14 points, mostly on dunks. Mullings led the Aggies (26-10) with 15 points. Go to Home Page »
Technology   Complaint Against Kibkalo. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content The New York Times Technology|Complaint Against Kibkalo Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go http://nyti.ms/1oBnw1y Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Technology Complaint Against Kibkalo Alex A. Kibkalo has been accused of handing over trade secrets, including prerelease software updates for Windows 8 RT, to an industry blogger while he was employed by Microsoft. MARCH 20, 2014 Related Article Related Multimedia Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Travel   In Paris, Pictures at an Airport Exhibition. Advertisement The wait before boarding a plane can feel interminable, but those passing through Paris’s Roissy-Charles de Gaulle Airport have a stimulating alternative to idle perfume-testing in the tax-free zone. (Leave it to the French to offer a last gasp of art even as you’re on the brink of departure.) Espace Musées, a diminutive museum housed in the airport’s Terminal 2E, just inaugurated its third temporary exhibition. Open since late 2012, the free showcases — in English, Chinese, and French — are accessible for passengers who have checked in. This art-amid-transportation phenomenon exists in a handful of airports worldwide to lesser degrees: The Los Angeles International Airport held Influx, a public art festival in 2013, while Athens International Airport has a permanent exhibition related to Neolithic-era archaeological artifacts. Amsterdam’s Rijksmuseum has a sister permanent space at Schiphol Airport featuring Dutch masters. Espace Musées, however, offers a rotating lineup of temporary exhibitions that shuffles every six months. It’s an ambitious rhythm commensurate with any cosmopolitan cultural institution. Serge Lemoine, who was president of the Musée d’Orsay from 2008-11, heads up and plans the exhibitions. For each show, Espace Musée teams with an individual Parisian art establishment. The inaugural exhibit was in partnership with the Rodin Museum; the second with the Dubuffet Foundation. The newest expo, “From Le Brun to Calder: Furniture from Louis XIV to Today,” is a selection of furnishings and tapestries pulled from the Mobilier National collection. Historically, it was the institution commissioned to provide lavish fixtures and tapestries for the king and his court; today, it conserves thousands of both modern and centuries-old furniture and textiles. (It runs through Sept. 17.) Twenty pieces compare works made over four centuries. A behemoth bronze-edged set of drawers used by Louis XIV (designed by André-Charles Bulle) is juxtaposed between bright abstract tapestries by Alexander Calder and Joan Miró. The architect Le Corbusier is here shown in flat tapestry form, the nonfigurative silhouettes from his painting “Les Musiciennes” hanging alongside the painter Charles Le Brun’s muted landscape, created almost three centuries earlier. Jean Veber’s fanciful world of fairy tale characters — sleeping gnomes, roaming giants, placid unicorns — is seen on seat backs and fire screens. In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
U.S.   Frustrating Black Hair Remark at Harvard. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Video Frustrating Black Hair Remark at Harvard By Channon Hodge | Mar. 21, 2014 | 0:39 Kimiko Matsuda-Lawrence, a student who wrote and directed “I, Too, Am Harvard,” a play about feeling marginalized at the university, explains why a compliment can be offensive. Show More PlaylistUp Next in Video Next → Op-Docs: Season 5 9:23 I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked   Video1:08 Hitting all the Right Notes Op-Docs: Season 5 13:33 Manufacturing China’s Future Op-Docs: Season 5 6:05 Fashion vs. Art   Video0:56 Excerpt: ‘The Father’   Video0:33 Excerpt: ‘Exit Strategy’ Op-Docs: Season 5 7:19 A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race   Video1:58 Excerpt: ‘Antlia Pneumatica’   News Clips: Europe1:20 Officials React to Panama Papers   News Clips: Europe3:47 Mossack Fonseca on Data Leak © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Business   What an Electric Current Does Not Flow Through. Advertisement By Ian Livengood Mar 23, 2014 The New York Times Crossword is available through subscription only. SUNDAY’S PUZZLE — Today’s puzzle by Ian Livengood contains one of my favorite quotations, yet I am going to predict that we will have at least a few people who take issue with the fact that THOMAS EDISON is presented as the sole inventor of the INCANDESCENT LIGHT BULB. He patented it, of course, but there are many people who feel that, had EDISON not been a particularly good businessman, Nikola Tesla would have had a much more important place in the light bulb invention section of the history books. But back to the quote, and this terrific puzzle. If you are pursuing anything — a creative endeavor, an invention, a career — it is always worth remembering that failure is just another way to learn and refine your technique (Note: Because of stalking laws, this probably doesn’t apply to personal relationships.) The quote, as attributed to Mr. EDISON, is “I HAVE NOT FAILED; I HAVE JUST FOUND TEN THOUSAND WAYS THAT WON’T WORK.” See also, “If at first you don’t succeed, try, try again.” I love that. How many wonderful things would we be missing in life if artists and inventors just gave up the first time something didn’t work? So we have the quote and we have THOMAS EDISON, and we also have his nickname, THE WIZARD OF MENLO PARK in the grid, but there’s one more absolutely delightful part of this theme. See those circles in the grid? The make a funny shape, don’t they (don’t forget the two circling the O and the M in 96 Across.) Turns out that they make the shape of one of those INCANDESCENT LIGHT BULBs Mr. Edison is famous for, and if you read the message counterclockwise from the A in 64 Across, you get a phrase that is not only familiar to inventors and artists, but to puzzle solvers as well: AHA MOMENT. Isn’t that just awesome? While you’re munching the SESAME BAGELS that Mr. Livengood thoughtfully left us for our Sunday Solvers’ Brunch, also take note of some of the groovy long entries, like DNA MOLECULE, OPEN CIRCUIT (a nod to the rest of the theme, perhaps?), METALLICA, CHICAGO BULLS and THE NINERS. Let’s hear from Mr. Livengood about why this idea turned him on: I saw a clue for AHA and — wait for it — the light went on in my head. The AHA MOMENT spelled out as a light bulb was the next logical step, followed by THOMAS EDISON and INCANDESCENT LIGHT BULB (a 21!). I toyed with listing other Edison inventions or accomplishments, but a quote seemed more appropriate. The construction was tricky since I couldn’t have the themers running through the middle of the grid mucking up the circled answers. But aside from two or three short clunkers, I’m pleased with the fill. I paused at inserting DNA MOLECULE and OPEN CIRCUIT since they seemed too close to the Edison/electricity/science theme, but eventually decided to roll with them. Hope solvers enjoy the puzzle! It’s definitely a bright spot in my Sunday, Mr. Livengood. Your thoughts? Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. David Kahn puts us through the wringer.Read more… Emily Cox and Henry Rathvon offer us a challenging cryptic crossword puzzle.Read more… A place for solvers to discuss and ask questions about the “A Little Variety” suite of puzzles.Read more… Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   As Numbers Swell, Students Pledge to Continue Occupying Taiwan’s Legislature. Advertisement   The number of protesters in Taipei has grown dramatically since late Tuesday, when several hundred stormed the legislative chambers and barricaded themselves inside. Outside, thousands more supporters line the streets around the Legislature, and many of those Saturday had slept outside overnight. The protests were set off by efforts by Mr. Ma’s governing party, the Kuomintang, or K.M.T., to push through an agreement with China that would lower barriers for the two sides to each other’s service sectors. Lawmakers had previously agreed to a detailed review of the pact, which was signed in Shanghai in June 2013 by two semiofficial organizations representing China and Taiwan. Opponents of the trade deal say it will harm businesses in Taiwan and will allow China to greatly increase its economic influence over the self-governed island. A K.M.T. legislator, Chang Ching-chung, advanced the measure to the floor on March 17, skipping over the promised review, which incited the student-led protests. The opposition Democratic Progressive Party says that move broke an agreement to hold an itemized review of the trade deal. The K.M.T. said the move was necessary because the opposition was blocking the progress of the measure’s review. On Friday, students occupying the Legislature called for Mr. Ma to meet with them and discuss their demands that the service trade agreement be blocked and that cross-strait trade agreements be more closely monitored by the Legislature. The president declined, and the students announced that they would continue their occupation of the Legislature and called for protests at governing party offices. Prime Minister Jiang Yi-huah met with demonstrators outside the Legislature on Saturday afternoon and told them that the executive branch had no intention of dropping the trade pact. The students call their protests the Sunflower Movement, and say the flower is symbolic of the light and transparency they want to bring to the government. “When I saw that the trade services bill had advanced without any review, it seemed like an authoritarian technique,” said Sam Wu, a 33-year-old clinical psychologist who joined the protests on Friday. “I thought it was unjust. That’s why we’re upset.” An official from Mr. Ma’s office told the Central News Agency that the president was willing to discuss the trade deal but wouldn’t be forced into talks. The K.M.T, holds 65 of 113 legislative seats, versus 40 for the Democratic Progressive Party, giving the governing party the votes to push through the measure. The opposition has endorsed the protests, calling on its members to support the students and activists occupying the Legislature. The student leaders, for their part, have sought to distance themselves from the opposition. “This is not a party movement,” said Shih I-lun, a spokesman for the students. “This is a movement of the whole society.” The Legislature’s speaker, Wang Jin-pyng, has said that he does not plan to have the students removed by force, local newspapers reported Friday. There were attempts to oust them in the hours after the occupation began Tuesday, and students barricaded the chambers with chairs. Workers have placed barbed-wire barriers around nearby buildings. Large groups of police officers, some holding riot shields, have been stationed around the Legislature. As speakers alternate between lectures on economic matters and rallying songs, volunteers pass out food, water and blankets, clear trash and try to keep lines of supporters moving through the crowded, narrow streets. “I’m not sure what result this will have in the end,” said Mr. Wu. “But we should use every means to let our government know what we want.” Sinosphere, the China blog of The New York Times, delivers intimate, authoritative coverage of the planet's most populous nation and its relationship with the rest of the world. Drawing on timely, engaging dispatches from The Times’ distinguished team of China correspondents, this blog brings readers into the debates and discussions taking place inside a fast-changing country and details the cultural, economic and political developments shaping the lives of 1.3 billion people. Some called on the government to send troops to the Middle East in retaliation to an Islamic State killing, while others cautioned that such a move could invite terrorism at home.Read more… The dissidents had won official recognition as refugees and had been previously detained in China for their activism, Chris Buckley reports.Read more… Human rights advocates listened with a mixture of incredulity and derision to the delegation’s responses on interrogation, Nick Cumming-Bruce reports. Read more… In the Philippines for an Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit, President Obama urged China to halt military activities on the disputed islands, Michael D. Shear reports. Read more… The dead, including women and children, were said to have been involved in a knife attack in September that left 50 people dead at a mine near the Kyrgyzstan border, Javier C. Hernández reports. Read more… Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   20 Years Later, U.C.L.A. Knocks Off Tulsa. Advertisement Advertisement By BILLY WITZMARCH 22, 2014 SAN DIEGO — Geography has never been a strong suit of U.C.L.A. basketball players. Before one N.C.A.A. tournament game against Penn State, a Bruin said he thought the Nittany Lions played in the Ivy League. Before U.C.L.A. opened the 1994 tournament against Tulsa — with a 112-102 loss — another Bruin said he did not know the university was in Oklahoma. Twenty years later, the Bruins drew Tulsa again — and this time they proved they had learned not only their geography but some history, too. They avoided another stunner by the Golden Hurricanes, pulling away in the second half Friday night for a 76-59 victory in the South Region. Which team do you think will win? Eh, never mind that. Tell us which teams’ losses would give you the greatest joy, and which team’s success would make you most happy. U.C.L.A. has not advanced past the first weekend of the tournament since 2008, the last of three consecutive Final Four appearances. But all that stands between the fourth-seeded Bruins, who knocked off Arizona to win the Pacific-12 Conference tournament, and a trip to the Round of 16 is 12th-seeded Stephen F. Austin, which shocked Virginia Commonwealth earlier Friday. Norman Powell, playing in his hometown, ended the game emphatically for U.C.L.A. with a slam dunk in the final minute that delighted the large contingent of fans who had made the two-hour drive. But U.C.L.A.’s top performer was Jordan Adams, who had 21 points, 8 rebounds (5 on offense) and 4 assists. Adams may also be the best defensive player on a team that has just recently started to play well at that end. Tulsa narrowed its deficit to 35-32 early in the second half, but Adams hit a 3-pointer that began a 10-0 U.C.L.A. run, giving the Bruins a working margin the rest of the way. Tulsa cut the gap to 5 on a pair of occasions. But after DeAndre Wright sliced U.C.L.A’s lead to 59-54 with less than five minutes remaining, Tulsa could manage only two more baskets. Advertisement It prevented the Golden Hurricanes from teaching the Bruins any more lessons, about basketball or otherwise. Go to Home Page »
Travel   Sit Back and Soak Awhile in Natural Springs. Advertisement Instead of pushing traditional spa services, several hotels around the world are focusing on expanding natural hot springs on-site as a way for guests to unwind. A recent renovation at Calistoga Spa Hot Springs in Napa Valley, Calif., for example, added four mineral pools with temperatures ranging from 80 to 106 degrees. Dunton Hot Springs, a resort in Colorado’s San Juan Mountains, has five natural sulfur-free hot springs and is working on creating a sixth. The new Nayara Springs in northern Costa Rica has natural hot springs running through it, and each of its 16 private villas has a plunge pool fed by their waters. Banyan Tree Hotels and Resorts has two properties in China where natural springs are a highlight: the Banyan Tree Chongqing Beibei in the southwestern metropolis of Chongqing has a 100-degree hot spring attached to its 107 rooms and seven additional indoor and outdoor springs as part of its spa. Angsana Tengchong Hot Spring Village (another Banyan Tree) in the Yunan province has 43 mineral-based springs spread over 180,000 square feet. Two Bunch Palms in Desert Hot Springs, Calif., is in the midst of an $11 million renovation that includes adding two hot springs to its current one. The pools will be heated to 104 degrees and each will be able to accommodate at least 20 people. Susie Ellis, the president of SpaFinder Wellness Inc., an online service that connects consumers with spas, said that soaking in hot springs is an ancient practice that’s finally coming into vogue because travelers are more interested in natural treatments. “They feel good, relieve stress, and there are a lot of them around the world which are finally being tapped into,” she said. Any health benefits aside, the biggest perk of hot springs at hotels might be their affordability; most properties don’t charge their guests to use them. A version of this article appears in print on 03/23/2014, on page TR3 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Trending: Sit Back and Soak Awhile in Natural Springs. In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Business   Start-Up Data Storage Firm Actifio Hits $1 Billion Mark. Advertisement   Today, a young start-up, Actifio, is drawing similar investor interest in a decidedly unflashy sector: data storage. On Monday, Actifio announced that it had raised $100 million in new financing, valuing the entire company at $1 billion. That vote of confidence places Actifio in an elite club of start-ups with 10-figure valuations, stepping up the pressure on the company to deliver on its ambitions. Though little known outside of technology circles, Actifio is rapidly gaining large corporate customers as it attacks a problem that the incumbent data storage firms have been slow to address. Its software, which costs an average of $349,000 for a three-year contract, allows a company access to a virtual version of backup copies of data, freeing up space and improving the overall efficiency of the company’s data storage. Actifio’s backers draw a comparison to VMware, which was a leader in creating software that was critical to cloud computing. While that expanded the amount of work a single computer server could do, Actifio’s product is aimed at enhancing a data center. “An idea like this comes along about once a decade,” said Jamie Goldstein, a partner at North Bridge, a venture capital firm that was an initial investor in Actifio and participated in the latest financing round. “Data has become such an important part of the tech economy, and the entire economy. Anybody who is collecting a lot of data is going to be facing this problem.” Actifio, which was founded in 2009, hopes to go public at some point next year, and its investors are betting on a big payday. An investment firm, Tiger Global Management, led the latest investment round, which included participation from Andreessen Horowitz, Greylock Partners and other venture capital firms. The company, based in Boston, is not profitable, but it had other impressive numbers to show its investors. It says that its bookings grew by 182 percent last year, and that it now has more than 300 business customers around the world. Those include companies like Time Warner Cable, Netflix, IBM and Unilever. One customer, the big private equity firm Kohlberg Kravis Roberts, is in the process of putting the software in place in North America and Europe. Peter Sung, a vice president for information technology at K.K.R., said the software greatly reduces the time it takes to retrieve copies of data and makes those copies easier to manage. Actifio has a potential rival in EMC, the data storage giant, which last year increased its focus on managing copies of data. In response, Actifio’s founder and chief executive, Ash Ashutosh, wrote a blog post sarcastically congratulating EMC on “recognizing the transformational impact of copy data management.” But for the most part, large data storage firms have hesitated to embrace this business, in part because it poses a threat to their main activity of selling more storage space, said Ashish Nadkarni, a research director at IDC. “This was never a technology problem,” Mr. Nadkarni said. “It was always a matter of, ‘O.K., so, if we bring this technology to market, it is going to mean less sales for us.’ ” Mr. Ashutosh previously had success in a related business. Another company he founded, AppIQ, which made software to manage storage infrastructure, was sold to Hewlett-Packard for $300 million in 2005. After a stint at H.P., he joined Greylock as a partner. The idea for Actifio came while he was analyzing trends in the field of enterprise software companies, he said. The comparison to VMware, invoked by Actifio itself, is a complicated one. VMware has sought to reposition itself in recent years, in the face of increased competition and a changed technology landscape. But Actifio does not expect to encounter a similar problem. “I think we have tremendous patent protection here,” Mr. Goldstein, the North Bridge partner, said, “and a very large lead on the rest of the market.” A version of this article appears in print on 03/24/2014, on page B7 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Data Firm Actifio Hits $1 Billion Value Mark. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   In Our Pages: March 24. Advertisement 1914 : Lord Kitchener Hosts Ball at British Agency in Cairo CAIRO — The weather continues gloriously fine, although unusually warm for this time of the year. The hotels continue very full and many people are delaying their return to Europe. Among the most magnificent entertainments of the season undoubtedly was the ball given last night (St.Patrick’s Day) by Lord Kitchener at the British Agency. There must have been well over five hundred people present; but, owing to the attractions of the garden, the other suites of reception rooms and the supper tent, there was no congestion in the ballroom. Many a couple found much to marvel at in the fine furnishings of the reception rooms with their banks of roses, deliciously arranged groups of cut flowers, and wealth of art treasures of all descriptions — cabinets of priceless Venetian iridescent glass, Chinese lacquer, bronze Buddhas, carved ivories, alabaster vases, not to mention the wonderful specimens garnered since Lord Kitchener’s present tenure of office. 1964: Scientist Seeks Pill to Make Cigarette Smoking Safe PALM BEACH, Fla. — Dr. Charles Huggins says he has developed a pill that may prevent cancer caused by smoking. The future picture might be that of a smoker who would pop one or two pills into his mouth each morning along with his vitamins and puff away contentedly, free from fear of getting lung cancer 20 years later. Dr. Huggins, who told about the pill at an American Cancer Society seminar currently in progress here, warned, however that experiments have been performed only on animals. True, experiments performed on animals have a way of turning up false when attempted on human beings or even on some other species. Even if his pills did prevent cancer, Dr. Huggins admitted they would not control other illnesses that have been tied to the habit, like heart attacks and emphysema — the breathing trouble that comes from damaged lungs. Nevertheless, Dr. Huggins, director of the Ben May Laboratory for Cancer Research at the University of Chicago, has great optimism. The white-haired doctor, who smokes incessantly, said: “Cigarettes don’t cause cancer . . . it’s the smoke.”  This blog will share highlights and curiosities from The International Herald Tribune's storied reportage. While we will share coverage of historic events — the world wars, the women's suffrage movement, the great expeditions — we will also republish glimpses of less earth-shaking moments and the ephemera of daily life. The same stories that caught the eyes of our generations of editors now offer us insight into the lives and interests of generations of Trib readers. Read more » From the International Herald Tribune archives: The Vichy government limits menus in 1941.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: A Nigerian officer at war sends a dispatch in 1916. Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: Germany establishes a naval repair shop 500 miles from South America in 1941.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: Prince Victor Napoleon gives a treatise on French politics in 1891.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: British troops attack Irak forces in 1941.Read more… Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Science   Subject Seven. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Video Subject Seven By Nadav Klein and Haotian Zhou | Mar. 23, 2014 | 0:22 Are they lying or telling the truth? Show More PlaylistUp Next in Video Next → Op-Docs: Season 5 9:23 I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked   Video1:08 Hitting all the Right Notes Op-Docs: Season 5 13:33 Manufacturing China’s Future Op-Docs: Season 5 6:05 Fashion vs. Art   Video0:56 Excerpt: ‘The Father’   Video0:33 Excerpt: ‘Exit Strategy’ Op-Docs: Season 5 7:19 A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race   Video1:58 Excerpt: ‘Antlia Pneumatica’   News Clips: Europe1:20 Officials React to Panama Papers   News Clips: Europe3:47 Mossack Fonseca on Data Leak © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Society   Intervening Before Their Friends Could. Advertisement Advertisement By MARGAUX LASKEYMARCH 23, 2014 Rachel Liane Slaff, the daughter of Howard B. Slaff and Renée W. Slaff of Wilmington, Del., is to be married Sunday to Dr. David Jay Berman, the son of Debbie H. Berman and Dr. Mark S. Berman of Oradell, N.J. Rabbi Bradley Hercman will officiate at the Helen and Martin Kimmel Center for University Life at New York University. The couple met at N.Y.U., from which the groom graduated cum laude and the bride summa cum laude. The bride also received a master’s degree in new media and digital innovation there. The bride, 25, will continue to use her name professionally. In April, she is to become the social media manager at Forbes.com in New York. The bride’s father is the president and chief operating officer of Esschem, a manufacturer and supplier of custom acrylics for the dental, medical and cosmetics industries in Marcus Hook, Pa. Her mother retired as a preschool teacher at Temple Emanuel in Cherry Hill, N.J. The groom, 26, is a first-year anesthesiology resident at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York. He received his medical degree with distinction in medical education from the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai. Advertisement The groom’s mother is a part-time math tutor in New Jersey. His father is an orthopedic surgeon in private practice in Hackensack, N.J., and the vice chairman of orthopedic surgery at Hackensack University Medical Center. The couple met in August 2006 when Dr. Berman, then an orientation leader at N.Y.U. for the Bronfman Center for Jewish Student Life, took Ms. Slaff and several other freshmen on a walk across the Brooklyn Bridge. They started talking and became close friends. They remained so throughout undergraduate and graduate school. Acquaintances often told them they would make a great couple, but dating each other was not something they ever seriously considered. “We always say that we needed to be who we are,” Ms. Slaff said. “We needed to have each dated other people and gotten to become the people we are. He needed to finish medical school, and I was glad that I had him as a friend, but I’m not sure I had the emotional bandwidth to know where I wanted to go next in my life.” For Dr. Berman’s part, whenever the thought of asking her out crossed his mind, he quickly dismissed the notion. “I was a chicken because I didn’t think that this nice, smart, pretty Jewish girl would be interested in this awkward doofus doctor,” he said. In December 2012, mutual friends, convinced that they belonged together, decided to stage a lighthearted “intervention.” Their plan was to spur Mr. Berman into action by hanging poster-size pictures of Ms. Slaff in his apartment for him to discover when he arrived home from work. Ms. Slaff was mortified when she learned of the plan and decided, she said, “to intervene on the intervention.” A few days later, they were walking home from a get-together with friends, when Ms. Slaff nervously broached the subject. “Listen, it’s come to my attention that our friends think we should date,” she said. “Maybe we should talk about it.” They did, and after several hours of hashing out the risks of dating one’s best friend (“Dave majored in econ as an undergrad,” Ms. Slaff said, “so he’s quite the risk evaluator”), they decided to take the plunge and become a couple right then and there. They made the announcement to their friends at the synagogue the next day and had their first official date one week later. Dr. Berman said they have been practically inseparable ever since (with the exception of when he is on call). They were engaged last May. Advertisement “I knew from the moment I met her,” Dr. Berman said, “whoever ends up marrying her is going to be the luckiest dude alive.” MARGAUX LASKEY A version of this article appears in print on March 23, 2014, on page ST21 of the New York edition with the headline: Intervening Before Their Friends Could. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Sports   Napier Takes Center Stage as UConn Upsets Villanova. Advertisement Advertisement By ZACH SCHONBRUNMARCH 23, 2014 BUFFALO — Connecticut led second-seeded Villanova by 5 with less than four minutes remaining Saturday, but Shabazz Napier — the Huskies’ best player and the team’s indisputable heart and soul — sat crumpled in a heap on the bench, his face buried in a towel. Napier winced as UConn’s trainer rubbed his right shin and ankle and the Huskies forged on without him. He checked back in with 3 minutes 22 seconds remaining, treading carefully. But the Huskies sure looked happy to have him on the court. Behind a gutsy performance by Napier, a senior who scored 25 points, seventh-seeded Connecticut upset Villanova, 77-65, in the East Region at First Niagara Center, moving on to the Round of 16 for the first time since 2011, when the Huskies won their last national championship. Napier was on that team, a dynamic role player who still needed a few years of seasoning. By Saturday, his time on center stage had arrived. Back in the game, still limping, Napier cut through a throng of defenders and made a layup, bringing UConn’s lead to 9 and his point total to 22. His face was flushed; he seemed barely able to move laterally. It did not matter. Advertisement “He’s just tough-minded,” Connecticut Coach Kevin Ollie said. “He does whatever we need to win.” On Friday, Ollie said Napier possessed a “moxie” from nearly the moment he stepped on campus, with Napier telling Kemba Walker at practice what he needed to do. Ollie may have been partly kidding. “He had a confidence, like I’m supposed to be here,” Ollie said Friday. Napier scored 4 points in the first half Saturday as Villanova controlled the opening minutes, building a 19-9 lead. But the Wildcats’ shooting ability let them down for a third consecutive game. Villanova went 11:24 without hitting a field goal as UConn went on a 16-1 run in the first half. Still, the Huskies went into halftime ahead by only 25-24. “We felt in good shape at halftime,” Wildcats Coach Jay Wright said. In the second half, Connecticut came out with more energy, hitting 7 of its first 12 shots from the field to hurry out to a 42-36 lead. After two 3-pointers by Napier, UConn led, 54-45, with less than five minutes remaining. A minute later, Napier went down, which seemed as if it might give Villanova a chance to close the gap. But Connecticut stalled enough to allow Napier some time for recovery, and he re-entered the game after only 36 seconds of playing time had elapsed. “I was trying to get open for the ball, and I think it was Hilliard that kneed me or kicked me in the shin,” Napier said, referring to Villanova’s Darrun Hilliard II. “The pain was excruciating.” Napier added that an athletic trainer “put that biofreeze on it, and I was ready to go.” The Wildcats shot just 35 percent from the field and were outscored, 26-5, off the bench. Despite a regular season with the most wins in program history (28), Villanova has yet to reach the Round of 16 since 2009. A version of this article appears in print on March 23, 2014, on page SP8 of the New York edition with the headline: Connecticut 77, Villanova 65. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Travel   Reflecting on a Writer’s Walk Through Europe. Advertisement Advertisement By KENAN CHRISTIANSENMARCH 21, 2014 From the time he was a boy, acclaimed travel writer Patrick Leigh Fermor wanted to live like a character in a novel. Somehow, he found out how. During his lifetime, he was stabbed in Bulgaria, car-bombed in Greece, targeted in a blood vendetta, and hunted by German soldiers after kidnapping their commander on the island of Crete and handing him off to a waiting British submarine during World War II. But his story started in 1933, when at 18 he was focused on the single goal of walking across Europe, “From the hook of Holland to Constantinople.”  “This journey means more and more to him the older he gets; he realizes that in a funny way, it set the course of his life,” said Artemis Cooper, his biographer, who was an editor of Mr. Leigh Fermor’s third and final book about the trip — one that fans of the writer’s inimitable flare for whorling descriptions and evocative prose have waited nearly three decades to read. The story ended up being called “The Broken Road,” a reflection of the fact that the writer was unable to finish the book before his death in 2011. It ends in midsentence, with him still 500 miles short of his goal. Below are excerpts from a conversation with Cooper about Mr. Leigh Fermor, known affectionately as Paddy, and his adventurous walk. Q. When did Mr. Leigh Fermor first devise his trip across Europe? A. He was the kind of kid that makes all parents despair. When he was 18, he had finished school, but seemed absolutely unemployable. His father was this eminent geologist in India — one of the hardest-working people you could meet. And all of his friends would say, “Why can’t you be like your father?” But of course to Paddy, that just sounded like life imprisonment.   All he really wants to do is become a writer. Of course, he had nothing to write about and only produced the usual adolescent poetry that nobody wanted to read. At the time, he was in turmoil.  He was going to too many parties, having too many hangovers and on the inside he was completely miserable.  Then he describes that it just came to him from one moment to the next: He would walk across Europe. He traveled through Europe during a significant time in history.  Right, he crosses through Germany nine months after Hitler comes to power. At the time, Paddy wasn’t interested in politics or Nazidom, except that he recognized it as something hateful and extremely regimented, but the young Nazis were certainly interested in him.  They had heard about the Oxford anti-war debate, so for them, he represented an example of the young, decadent, Englishmen, who would not fight for king and country. During some of those clashes, Paddy tried explaining the anti-war movement that was happening within the younger generation in England, but of course that didn’t cut much ice. Paddy was more interested in writing about the hospitality he received, as he traveled further East to the more remote parts of Germany. For a child who had been born in 1915 and raised with a visceral sense of anti-German sentiment, he was amazed by how kind people were to him, by the generosity he was shown.  And this continues throughout his trip. Mr. Leigh Fermor seemed to have a natural gift for drawing out people’s hospitality. Oh yes, and they didn’t want him to go, no matter how many cigarette burns he left in the sheets.  He could put an incredible spell on people.  Part of it was he had the right kind of curiosity.  Even at the age of 18, he was extremely interested by the way the past enriches and leaks into the present: the way you can see it.  And these counts, living in their dusty old schlosses must have loved that. Here this kid comes along, hungry to know all about their family history: all the wars they had participated in and their great dynastic marriages. And suddenly, instead of seeing themselves as part of some washed up bit of broken empire, bang in the middle of nowhere, with the world moving very fast around them, their place in the world became this wonderful treasure house of history, with lineages stretching back past Charlemagne to the depths of time. Advertisement What else did he see? In Bulgaria, he encounters Islamic culture in person for the first time. He sleeps alternately in mosques, hayricks and grand estates, and meets wealthy barons and humble peasants in homespun clothing.  The Bulgarians tell him if he ever goes to Romania he’ll be attacked by wolves, bears and gypsies but, of course, that never happens.  Instead in Bucharest, he meshes with a lovely high-society crowd and goes to nightclubs and parties.  In Greece, he travels from monastery to monastery, picking up Greek from the monks.  And there he finds Mount Athos, the holy mountain. He wrote that only men were permitted to go there.  Yes, and not only is it only men, but no female animal is allowed there either.  You will only see roosters there, you will only see rams.  I don’t know how they control the cat population, realistically, I don’t think they do.  The reason for this is the mountain was dedicated to the Virgin Mary. As the story goes, if a woman tries to go to the island, she’ll see a terrifying vision of the Virgin Mary surrounded by flames saying, “Get out! There is another queen than thou!”  Paddy knows he finally left the holy mountain when he descends into a valley and spots a group of young girls playing in the fields. What did the journey mean to him?  Remember, most of what you’re reading is put together 30 years after the walk. At the time of the journey, he was a callow youth, and the descriptions he jotted down were quite pedestrian. It was only in hindsight, after a world war and the dark years of Communism, that he really was able to write what he felt about that particular swath of civilization.  Memory can be slippery stuff and sometimes it was hard for him to find the overarching voice that would somehow absorb the reality of the diary with what he’d written later on.  But what he’s created is this wonderful poetic vision that is lyrical, evocative, learned and all the things we love about him. Together, those books are a kind of love letter to Europe: the Europe that perhaps never existed but lies suspended somewhere between memory and imagination. A version of this article appears in print on March 23, 2014, on page TR3 of the New York edition with the headline: Artemis Cooper on the Life of the Acclaimed Travel Writer Patrick Leigh Fermor and His European Life of Intrigue. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
U.S.   Washington Officials Discuss Mudslide. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Video Washington Officials Discuss Mudslide Mar. 23, 2014 | 0:56 Washington State officials discussed the mudslide that has killed at least three people. Show More PlaylistUp Next in Video Next → Op-Docs: Season 5 9:23 I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked   Video1:08 Hitting all the Right Notes Op-Docs: Season 5 13:33 Manufacturing China’s Future Op-Docs: Season 5 6:05 Fashion vs. Art   Video0:56 Excerpt: ‘The Father’   Video0:33 Excerpt: ‘Exit Strategy’ Op-Docs: Season 5 7:19 A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race   Video1:58 Excerpt: ‘Antlia Pneumatica’   News Clips: Europe1:20 Officials React to Panama Papers   News Clips: Europe3:47 Mossack Fonseca on Data Leak © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Business   In a Mischievous Manner. Advertisement By David Woolf Mar 25, 2014 The New York Times Crossword is available through subscription only. TUESDAY’S PUZZLE — This is New York Times puzzle number 2 for David Woolf, although he tells me that it was the first one Will Shortz accepted from him. That can happen sometimes; a constructor submits a number of puzzles in a row and some are accepted, but they might not necessarily run in the order in which they were received. Mr. Woolf made his debut last November and he’s back today attempting to prove one of the most difficult theories known to man, other than whether Justin Bieber is really as insufferable as he seems. Today’s puzzle tries to prove that sports adage, IT AIN’T OVER UNTIL THE FAT LADY SINGS (which is split between 17- and 57 Across) and, as proof, he offers the WALK-OFF HOMER from baseball and the BUZZER BEATER from basketball. Whether those really prove anything is something I’ll leave up to better minds than mine to decide, but I will say that I enjoyed this entry into our solving week. The solve was smooth, and I particularly enjoyed the clue “Baselessly off-base?” for AWOL. I also enjoyed SHISH KEBAB, FLOOZY and ZAFTIG. Not so much with the ENISLE (“Strand, in a way”), but that’s only one entry. Let’s talk to Mr. Woolf: My thoughts on this puzzle in list form: 1. This was my first puzzle accepted to the Times. 2. This is the second draft. The first had four theme answers, the other two being EMPTY NET (goal) and HAIL MARY (pass). While, if executed, these could potentially extend a game, they don’t necessarily trigger the end of a game. They also don’t imply success as the other two do. So they were rejected. 3. A lot of the grid shape was forced by crossing ZAFTIG with FAT LADY, which was too good to pass up. 4. Will Shortz changed two letters from the version I submitted. Can you guess what they are? 5. Happy March Madness and Opening Day! Nicely done, Mr. Woolf. Let’s funk it up a little in here and bop over to the Wednesday puzzle: Before I close, I just want to wish The Girl a very happy 19th birthday. You are beautiful inside and out, and as I always tell you, you are smarter and stronger than you even know right now. This is her first birthday away from home, but she is thriving in college, which makes this bittersweet for me. Your thoughts? Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. David Kahn puts us through the wringer.Read more… Emily Cox and Henry Rathvon offer us a challenging cryptic crossword puzzle.Read more… A place for solvers to discuss and ask questions about the “A Little Variety” suite of puzzles.Read more… Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Food   Return to the Rappahannock. Channels & Shows Home Search Food Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Food Return to the Rappahannock By A.J. Chavar | Mar. 24, 2014 | 3:51 Travis and Ryan Croxton of the Rappahannock Oyster Company are trying to bring a thriving oyster trade back to the Chesapeake Bay. Related: article: A Chesapeake Homecoming Show More PlaylistUp Next in Food Next → Melissa Clark Food2:08 Coconut Cluster Granola   International1:04 McDonald’s Copycat in Separatist Ukraine Melissa Clark Food1:51 Green Garlic Tabbouleh   Food1:46 Beer-Brined Roast Chicken | Taste Makers   Taste Makers6:32 Finding Your Flavors in the Kitchen | Taste Makers   Food1:12 Tomatillo Pineapple Salsa | Taste Makers   Taste Makers5:40 Growing Organics ‘Sin Fronteras’ | Taste Makers   Food1:16 Jollof Rice | Taste Makers   Taste Makers6:01 Nigerian Food, Crash-and-Burn Style | Taste Makers Melissa Clark Food2:33 Chicken and Artichokes © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Foreign   Image of the Day: March 24. Advertisement   India’s national elections began April 7 and will continue on nine separate dates until May 12, with results expected to be announced on May 16. The vote is the world’s largest, with 814 million eligible voters set to choose 543 members of the lower house of Parliament. The other two seats will be appointed by the president. This election is widely considered to be India’s most consequential since 1977. India Ink will be moving to the World page of The New York Times. Read more… A memorial ceremony at the Imphal War Cemetery in Manipur to honor the soldiers who died during World War II.Read more… The newly elected prime minister reaches out to the public in a blog post about his first 30 days in office.Read more… Newborns whose mothers are unable to breastfeed are given stored breast milk to protect them from potentially life-threatening infection.Read more… In the final stage of a long decline, Hindustan Motors announced in May that it would suspend production of the Ambassador, a car that was once synonymous with style and status.Read more… This report on India from the journalists of The New York Times and a pool of talented writers in India and beyond provides unbiased, authoritative reporting on the country and its place in the world. India Ink also strives to be a virtual meeting point for discussion of this complex, fast-changing democracy – its politics, economy, culture and everyday life. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Health   An Implant to Prevent Seizures. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Video An Implant to Prevent Seizures By Cleveland Clinic | Mar. 24, 2014 | 2:26 NeuroPace’s RNS system is an implantable device that prevents seizures in patients plagued by epilepsy. Show More PlaylistUp Next in Video Next → Op-Docs: Season 5 9:23 I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked   Video1:08 Hitting all the Right Notes Op-Docs: Season 5 13:33 Manufacturing China’s Future Op-Docs: Season 5 6:05 Fashion vs. Art   Video0:56 Excerpt: ‘The Father’   Video0:33 Excerpt: ‘Exit Strategy’ Op-Docs: Season 5 7:19 A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race   Video1:58 Excerpt: ‘Antlia Pneumatica’   News Clips: Europe1:20 Officials React to Panama Papers   News Clips: Europe3:47 Mossack Fonseca on Data Leak © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Science   Guidelines May Double Statin Use. Advertisement New treatment guidelines for lowering cholesterol could result in nearly 13 million more adults being put on statins, researchers reported last week in The New England Journal of Medicine. Nearly half of people older than age 40 may end up taking the drugs, roughly doubling current usage. The revised guidelines, issued in November, shifted focus from specific cholesterol levels to a broader assessment of heart attack and stroke risk. The new analysis found the revisions could bring huge increases in the numbers of older adults without cardiovascular disease who would nonetheless be urged to consider statins. Among men 60 to 75, the percentage would jump to 87 percent from 30 percent; among older women, it would increase to 54 percent from 21 percent. Dr. Steven Nissen, chief of cardiovascular medicine at the Cleveland Clinic, said the report confirmed concerns that the new guidelines don’t target the right patients for treatment. “What we really need is to identify people in their 40s and 50s who are vulnerable, and initiate treatment in those people where the lifelong benefit is likely to be so much greater,” Dr. Nissen said.  He faulted the risk calculator that accompanies the new guidelines for not taking into account family history of coronary heart disease as a “powerful” risk factor. Still, the new analysis, which examined data from more than 3,700 people nationwide, estimated that “over 10 years with full uptake of the guidelines we are going to prevent almost half a million additional events,” said Michael Pencina, the lead author and the director of biostatistics at the Duke Clinical Research Institute. “That’s pretty good.” However, Dr. Pencina acknowledged, “we may be giving statins to a lot of people who don’t need them.” A version of this article appears in print on 03/25/2014, on page D7 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Guidelines May Double Statin Use. The blog is ending, but our coverage of caregiving and aging is not. The New Old Age will run as a twice-monthly column by Paula Span on nytimes.com and frequently in Science Times. Read more… At many nursing homes and assisted living places, a resident’s passing may be hardly noted.Read more… Circumstances had changed, and all these documents needed to change, too. Read more… Lifestyle modification prevents Type 2 diabetes even more effectively in the elderly than in middle-aged patients.Read more… Julianne Moore gives a wonderful performance in “Still Alice,” but the film skirts the truth about dementia.Read more… Thanks to the marvels of medical science, our parents are living longer than ever before. Most will spend years dependent on others for the most basic needs. That burden falls to their baby boomer children. The New Old Age blog explored this unprecedented intergenerational challenge. Paula Span will continue to write New Old Age columns twice monthly at nytimes.com/health and the conversation will continue on Twitter (@paula_span) and Facebook. A few medical institutions have opened their doors to patients’ own dogs and cats. Scheduling and medication errors plague patients with Parkinson's. Dementia doesn't respect public stature. Is there life after caregiving, and if so what it is like? Comprehensive reference and special reports about diseases, conditions, tests, injuries and surgeries. Useful information, tools, and links to organizations around the Web. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   Johnson and Arizona Turn Back Gonzaga. Advertisement Advertisement By BILLY WITZMARCH 24, 2014 SAN DIEGO — David Stockton, as clever and wily as his Hall of Fame father, John, checked over his shoulder as he approached the basket. There was nobody ahead of him, he knew, but he looked to see who was lurking behind. When he saw that it was Nick Johnson, Stockton took a hesitation dribble, then laid the ball out in front of him, a move that John Stockton would use to elude and frustrate legions of shot blockers. It did not fool Johnson, the son of Jumping Joey Johnson, who took off like his father used to, and swatted the ball off the backboard as if the play were a setup. “We all saw it coming,” Arizona guard Gabe York said. “It was like LeBron.” The ease with which Johnson blocked the shot was also emblematic of the way No. 1 seed Arizona overwhelmed eighth-seeded Gonzaga, 84-61, on Sunday to secure a spot in the West Regional semifinal against fourth-seeded San Diego State on Thursday in Anaheim, Calif. The performance had to give pause to any Aztecs fans who were in attendance. “That’s the best team we’ve played, gosh, that I can remember,” said Gonzaga Coach Mark Few, whose team regularly plays one of the nation’s most challenging nonconference schedules. “They were just too much for us tonight.” Advertisement Johnson was far from the only high flier. If this tournament has been a disappointment for many of the star freshmen who are expected to leave for the N.B.A. after this season, with Jabari Parker of Duke and Andrew Wiggins of Kansas playing poorly in their teams’ losses this weekend, it was not so for Arizona’s Aaron Gordon. Gordon, an athletic and muscular 6-foot-9 forward, threw down rim-rattling, acrobatic dunks, and he was a defensive force on the perimeter and a willing passer. For good measure, he made a 3-pointer among his 18 points. He also had six rebounds, six assists and four steals in 23 minutes of play. Gonzaga, which calmly navigated Oklahoma State’s pressure defense in a comfortable victory, was on its heels from the start Sunday. It turned the ball over a season-high 21 times, and when Gordon dunked and was fouled by Sam Dower with 4 minutes 55 seconds left in the half, Arizona had a 43-22 lead. Gonzaga had a brief burst early in the second half, closing to 49-38 on a crafty post move by Przemek Karnowski. But Johnson hit a jumper and Gordon began a run with a steal, two assists and an emphatic dunk to restore the lead to 21. “Tonight was one of our season’s best performances,” said Arizona Coach Sean Miller, who joined his brother Archie Miller, the coach of Dayton, in the Round of 16. “The turnovers ignited our transition, and we’re always at our best when we can use our defense to our offense.” So dominant were the Wildcats that even their miscues were turned into highlights. When Gordon was stripped by Stockton, it set the stage for Johnson’s block. York thought Stockton would pump-fake. Stockton said he considered a reverse layup. Or getting his body into Johnson. Instead, he just offered up the ball. “That was a mistake,” he said. On this night, it was one of many that could not be avoided by Gonzaga. The Wildcats made a patient team look harried and a good-shooting team erratic. Arizona was that good, and from early on. Like Johnson lining up his block, it was not hard to see this one coming. A version of this article appears in print on March 24, 2014, on page D6 of the New York edition with the headline: Johnson and Arizona Turn Back Gonzaga. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Travel   Oil Spill Delays Cruise Departures. Advertisement Several cruises departing ports in Houston and Galveston have been delayed after a barge carrying almost one million gallons of bunker fuel oil collided with a bulk carrier ship in Galveston Bay, near Texas City, Tex., on Saturday. A ruptured tank on the barge spilled around 168,000 gallons of oil into the water, according to a release from the United States Coast Guard, which is working to contain and clean up the area. In the meantime, passage through ship channels in the region has been halted, leaving thousands of cruise passengers stuck in port and commercial vessels queuing up in long lines to exit the Gulf of Mexico. Three cruise ships — the Carnival Magic, the Carnival Triumph and Royal Caribbean’s Navigator of the Seas — were led from the gulf through the spill and back to their ports on Sunday and Monday morning, in order to allow passengers to disembark. But it is still uncertain when any future voyages, including that of Princess Cruises’ Caribbean Princess, which has been waiting in Houston with 3,354 passengers aboard since Saturday, would be allowed to depart. The Coast Guard said it was working to allow partial traffic through the area to resume. “We’re very sorry that this unfortunate incident has affected our passengers’ vacation plans, and we are currently looking at various itinerary scenarios based on a number of possible departure times,” Princess Cruises said in a statement on Sunday. Princess also noted that there was no official estimate of when that ship, scheduled for a seven-day cruise to Cozumel in Mexico, Roatan in Honduras, and Belize City in Belize, might be able to leave. “We will keep our passengers updated just as soon as we have anything concrete to share. In the meantime, they are on board the ship, which is operating a full entertainment, activity and dining schedule,” the statement said. Carnival Magic’s next voyage, originally scheduled to depart from Galveston on Sunday, is now expected to leave some time Monday afternoon, the company said in an email. The seven-day cruise will be shortened by one day, and guests who choose to sail will receive a prorated refund equal to one day of their cruise fare. The Carnival Triumph is being held at a cargo pier until the Magic departs, at which point it will shift to the passenger pier and commence debarkation. Triumph’s next voyage, a five-day cruise to Mexico, is scheduled to depart late on Monday and operate according to its regularly scheduled itinerary. Royal Caribbean’s Navigator of the Seas has already boarded passengers for its next voyage, which it expects will depart Galveston some time Monday afternoon as well, Cynthia Martinez, the director of the company’s global corporate communications, said in an email. If there are further delays to the seven-night voyage, guests will be compensated, she said, but the nature of the compensation will depend on how their cruise is affected. In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
U.S.   Chief’s Update on Washington Mudslide. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Video Chief’s Update on Washington Mudslide Mar. 24, 2014 | 0:21 Travis Hots, the Snohomish County fire chief, gave a news briefing on the search and rescue operation after a mudslide in the area. Show More PlaylistUp Next in Video Next → Op-Docs: Season 5 9:23 I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked   Video1:08 Hitting all the Right Notes Op-Docs: Season 5 13:33 Manufacturing China’s Future Op-Docs: Season 5 6:05 Fashion vs. Art   Video0:56 Excerpt: ‘The Father’   Video0:33 Excerpt: ‘Exit Strategy’ Op-Docs: Season 5 7:19 A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race   Video1:58 Excerpt: ‘Antlia Pneumatica’   News Clips: Europe1:20 Officials React to Panama Papers   News Clips: Europe3:47 Mossack Fonseca on Data Leak © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Books   The Read Around: Nancy Horan. Channels & Shows Home Search Culture Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Culture The Read Around: Nancy Horan By Chris Cascarano | Mar. 25, 2014 | 1:54 Robert Louis Stevenson married Fanny Van de Grift Osbourne in 1880. When author Nancy Horan saw how adventuresome their lives were, she had the material for “Under the Wide and Starry Sky.” Show More PlaylistUp Next in Culture Next → This Week’s Movies Culture3:28 This Week’s Movies | May 6, 2016   U.S.0:22 Obama, Dancing With the Star (Wars)   Opinion6:58 Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics   Fashion1:13 Red Carpet Arrivals at the Met Ball   Culture3:07 Tony Nominations Are Announced This Week’s Movies Culture3:28 This Week’s Movies | April 29, 2016 Anatomy of a Scene Culture2:41 Anatomy | ‘The Man Who Knew Infinity’   Europe0:29 Big Ben to Be Silenced   Food1:12 Tomatillo Pineapple Salsa | Taste Makers   Taste Makers6:01 Nigerian Food, Crash-and-Burn Style | Taste Makers © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Business   A Start-Up Is Offering an Online Way to Invest in Hollywood. Advertisement Thanks to new securities rules, Hollywood is about to get into the crowdfunding game. A start-up, Junction Investments, plans to open for business on Wednesday, allowing wealthy individuals to invest in movies alongside veteran film financiers. At the start, the company will offer an online chance to back “A Hologram for the King,” an adaptation of the Dave Eggers novel that will star Tom Hanks. Soon after, would-be mini-moguls will be able to invest in “Triple Nine,” a thriller featuring Kate Winslet, the “12 Years a Slave” star Chiwetel Ejiofor and Woody Harrelson. The start-up has already drawn a number of prominent backers and investors, including the casino billionaire Steve Wynn and the Internet entrepreneur Dave Morin. Junction represents the latest change brought about by the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act, or JOBS Act, whose passage in 2012 opened up new ways for companies to raise money. The law has already made it easier for companies to go public by eliminating a number of disclosure requirements. Perhaps its most notable change was that it blessed crowdfunding. Groups of so-called accredited investors — people who either make $200,000 a year or have a net worth of more than $1 million, excluding their home — can band together to buy up a company’s equity. With financing hard to raise, crowdfunding has become a buzzword in the movie business. Filmmakers have used sites like Kickstarter to raise money to start production, giving birth to movies like “Veronica Mars.” But Junction is taking a different tack, its founders say: The films it will back are already fully funded, and will be made regardless of how much the start-up raises. Any money raised through the site could be used either as an additional cushion or as a replacement for some of the Hollywood financiers’ original investment. Many in Hollywood worry that crowdfunding will open start-ups to lawsuits by unhappy investors. But Junction hopes to blunt that concern by giving investors the same terms as the seasoned financiers already involved in a movie. Kickstarter users, by contrast, are essentially donating to projects in return for rewards. “Investors aren’t being asked to put money into projects that more experienced financiers have already passed on,” Brian Goldsmith, a Junction co-founder and a former producer for “CBS Evening News,” said in a telephone interview. “Experienced investors already have skin in the game.” Prospective investors visiting the company’s website can read about coming projects — and wade through lengthy legal disclaimers — before deciding whether to invest. As to whether Junction investors will see their names in the movie credits, that will be up to each film’s backers. Junction took shape in the fall of 2012 when Mr. Goldsmith began brainstorming with Adam Kaufman, a friend and a former banker at Goldman Sachs, about new business opportunities. They hit on the idea of crowdfunding, then decided the entertainment industry would be a perfect start. Last November, the two went to the American Film Market, the conference in Santa Monica, Calif., where filmmakers make their pitches to prospective backers. In a crowded bar overlooking the Pacific Ocean, the two met with Christopher Woodrow and Molly Conners, the heads of the independent film studio Worldview Entertainment. “While most people were talking about foreign film rights, we were talking about the JOBS Act,” said Mr. Kaufman, Junction’s chief executive. But the Worldview executives quickly understood the business proposition, and by the end of the half-hour meeting, the two sides shook hands over a partnership, with “Triple Nine” serving as the studio’s first test. Besides Worldview and Silver Reel Entertainment, which is backing the Tom Hanks movie, other partners include Endgame Entertainment, PalmStar and QED International. Mr. Kaufman and Mr. Goldsmith soon hired a staff, including a former Google engineer, a onetime technology employee at Goldman and a former lawyer at Cravath, Swaine & Moore. They also began to seek out advisers like Mr. Wynn and Logan Green, the chief executive of the car service Lyft. “They got it,” said Mr. Goldsmith, now Junction’s president. “We didn’t have to explain much.” Even though Junction has not yet funded its first movie, Mr. Kaufman and Mr. Goldsmith are already thinking of how to expand their business model beyond Hollywood. While the two will not discuss future plans, they said that the crowdfunding model could work elsewhere in the entertainment industry. “Within the film industry, we’re looking at a market of several billion dollars a year,” Mr. Kaufman said. “Outside of that, it’s a market of tens of billions of dollars.” A version of this article appears in print on 03/26/2014, on page B9 of the NewYork edition with the headline: A Start-Up Is Offering an Online Way to Invest in Hollywood. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   Image of the Day: March 25. Advertisement India’s national elections began April 7 and will continue on nine separate dates until May 12, with results expected to be announced on May 16. The vote is the world’s largest, with 814 million eligible voters set to choose 543 members of the lower house of Parliament. The other two seats will be appointed by the president. This election is widely considered to be India’s most consequential since 1977. India Ink will be moving to the World page of The New York Times. Read more… A memorial ceremony at the Imphal War Cemetery in Manipur to honor the soldiers who died during World War II.Read more… The newly elected prime minister reaches out to the public in a blog post about his first 30 days in office.Read more… Newborns whose mothers are unable to breastfeed are given stored breast milk to protect them from potentially life-threatening infection.Read more… In the final stage of a long decline, Hindustan Motors announced in May that it would suspend production of the Ambassador, a car that was once synonymous with style and status.Read more… This report on India from the journalists of The New York Times and a pool of talented writers in India and beyond provides unbiased, authoritative reporting on the country and its place in the world. India Ink also strives to be a virtual meeting point for discussion of this complex, fast-changing democracy – its politics, economy, culture and everyday life. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Science   How It Happens. Channels & Shows Home Search Science Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Understand the science behind the headlines in How It Happens, which combines simple explanation and elegant animation to reveal the inner workings of the physical world. Recent Episodes in How It Happens How It Happens Science 1:58 How It Happens | Mudslides How It Happens Science 2:00 How It Happens | Snowmaking How It Happens Science 1:56 How It Happens | Man-Made Quakes How It Happens Science 1:56 How It Happens | Hurricanes Most Popular 1 Opinion Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics 2 U.S. How Will Obama Spend His Retirement? 3 Fashion & Style Bill Cunningham | Garden Party 4 Science Why It’s Hard to Keep the Pounds Off 5 U.S. Obama Delivers Howard’s Commencement 6 U.S. Best of Obama's Correspondents' Dinner Speech 7 World The Killing of Farkhunda 8 Food How to Cut Up a Whole Chicken 9 N.Y. / Region So You Want to Do a Handstand? 10 Food Coconut Cluster Granola © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Sports   N.C.A.A. Apologizes to New Mexico State. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content Skip to navigation View mobile version The New York Times Sports|N.C.A.A. Apologizes to New Mexico State Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go http://nyti.ms/1fWq7w8 Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Supported by Sports | Sports Briefing | College Basketball N.C.A.A. Apologizes to New Mexico State By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 25, 2014 Continue reading the main story Share This Page Continue reading the main story New Mexico State Athletic Director McKinley Boston said Monday that the N.C.A.A. had apologized for making his team fly home immediately after its second-round tournament loss in Spokane, Wash. ■ Aaron Thomas matched a career-high with 26 points as top-seeded Florida State advanced to the National Invitation Tournament quarterfinals with a 101-90 victory against visiting Georgetown. A version of this brief appears in print on March 25, 2014, on page B11 of the New York edition with the headline: N.C.A.A. Apologizes to New Mexico State. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Continue reading the main story What's Next Loading... Go to Home Page » Site Index The New York Times Site Index Navigation News World U.S. Politics N.Y. Business Tech Science Health Sports Education Obituaries Today's Paper Corrections Opinion Today's Opinion Op-Ed Columnists Editorials Contributing Writers Op-Ed Contributors Opinionator Letters Sunday Review Taking Note Room for Debate Public Editor Video: Opinion Arts Today's Arts Art & Design ArtsBeat Books Dance Movies Music N.Y.C. Events Guide Television Theater Video: Arts Living Automobiles Crossword Food Education Fashion & Style Health Jobs Magazine N.Y.C. Events Guide Real Estate T Magazine Travel Weddings & Celebrations Listings & More Classifieds Tools & Services Times Topics Public Editor N.Y.C. Events Guide Blogs Multimedia Photography Video NYT Store Times Journeys Subscribe Manage My Account Subscribe Subscribe Times Insider Home Delivery Digital Subscriptions NYT Opinion Crossword Email Newsletters Alerts Gift Subscriptions Corporate Subscriptions Education Rate Mobile Applications Replica Edition International New York Times Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Travel   Cruises Resume Out of Texas. Advertisement Cruise ships in the Port of Galveston are getting underway again after a barge and bulk carrier ship collided in Galveston Bay on Saturday, creating a major oil spill and preventing ships from passing through the Houston Ship Channel into the Gulf of Mexico. As of Tuesday afternoon, the Carnival Magic was heading toward the gulf on a modified five-day itinerary with port calls in Cozumel and Grand Cayman, the company said in an email. (The cruise was initially scheduled for seven days.) Carnival’s Triumph was expected to get underway late Tuesday afternoon, the company said. Passengers who chose to proceed with either of these delayed cruises will receive a prorated refund for each day at sea missed, as well as a 25 percent discount on a future booking. Those who disembarked will receive the discount and a full refund. Royal Caribbean, whose Navigator of the Seas was scheduled to leave Galveston Sunday on a seven-day cruise, had canceled the voyage by Monday night. “We understand that this is not the news that our guests were hoping to hear and we share in their disappointment,” Cynthia Martinez, the director of global corporate communications, said in an email, adding that each passenger would receive a full refund and a credit of 25 percent of the fare paid for the voyage. Royal Caribbean also welcomed guests to stay aboard and enjoy the ship’s food and entertainment until March 30. Princess Cruises’ Caribbean Princess, which had been sitting in the Port of Houston with passengers aboard since Saturday, was able to depart Tuesday afternoon. Having lost two days of the original itinerary, the ship will now make one stop, in Cozumel on March 27, and return to port on March 29. Princess had already refunded passengers the full amount of the cruise, plus a goodwill credit of 25 percent of the cruise fare, Monday night, when the ship’s departure time was still uncertain. “These are disappointing and challenging circumstances that have been outside our control,” Princess said in a statement Monday, “and we truly appreciate our passengers’ patience and understanding.” In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
U.S.   Obama on End of N.S.A. Data Collection. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos U.S. Obama on End of N.S.A. Data Collection Mar. 26, 2014 | 6:06 President Obama spoke about the overhaul of the National Security Agency’s bulk phone records program at a press conference at the Gemeentemuseum in The Hague. Show More PlaylistUp Next in U.S. Next →   Business1:31 Fiat Chief on New Innovation Ideas   U.S. & Politics1:27 Obama Introduces New Tax Rules   U.S. & Politics0:28 Suspect Arrested in Maryland Shootings   U.S. & Politics1:01 Shooting at Maryland Mall   U.S. & Politics1:39 Obama on Trump’s Campaign   U.S.0:43 U.S. Concerned About Truce in Syria   U.S. & Politics0:33 Lawmaker's Removal Adds to Brazil's Turmoil   U.S.1:37 Gator Wrestling (Barefoot) in Colorado   U.S. & Politics1:06 Ban on Selling E-Cigarettes to Minors   U.S.0:22 Obama, Dancing With the Star (Wars) © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Business   Back to the Beginning. Advertisement By Jean O'Conor Mar 27, 2014 The New York Times Crossword is available through subscription only. THURSDAY’S PUZZLES — There is a reason why I don’t write Numberplay, the weekly math puzzle blog, but when the math concepts infiltrate my crossword puzzles, I am forced to bite the bullet and do the research. It’s not like I remember these concepts from school. Fortunately, I really liked this puzzle by Jean O’Conor, rebuses and all, so it was well worth my time. Let’s see if I can bring this blog post FULL CIRCLE, which is part of Ms. O’Conor’s theme today. Before I even realized that this puzzle was a rebus, I stumbled on 38 Down. Hands up (with me) if you automatically thought of TEXAS — which doesn’t fit — for the clue “Southernmost state”. Turns out that there are actually states outside the United States, did you know that? It’s true. Today, Ms. O’Conor and Will Shortz are thinking of TASMANIA. I can honestly say I didn’t see that one coming. Football (soccer to Americans) and cricket are both very popular sports in TASMANIA. The balls used in these sports are spherical, but one could trace a CIRCLE with them. The circumference of a CIRCLE can be measured using the formula “2 PI R” and the area of that same CIRCLE can be measured using the formula “PI R SQUARED”. (While we’re cruising this circle, let’s all stop for a moment and admire how Ms. O’Conor was able to cross those formulas with lively entries like “LIFE OF PI”, SQUARED AWAY and “MAGNUM P.I.”) You know what’s SQUARE? Boxing rings. (I know. Rings are round. Not boxing rings, though.) “Clay pounder?” is a very clever clue for Sonny LISTON. Speaking of clever clues, I also liked “Shirker of one’s duties?” for TAX EVADER and the tremendously fun “Do-si-do whoop-de-dos” for HOEDOWNS. Of course, if you’re going to dance, one would hope that you were being SERENADED, which would at least make it worth your while. Not only that, but the dance of SEDUCERS is purportedly the tango, which, of course, originated in TASMANIA. O.K., maybe it’s not a perfect circle, but it’s close. Let’s catch up with Ms. O’Conor: This puzzle began at Positive Pie, a restaurant in the very small town of Hardwick, Vt. It’s known for its delicious pizza served from a wood-fired oven and for its selection of craft beers. While anticipating both of these pleasures, and studying the menu decorated with its design of +’s and π’s, my husband started the discussion of pizza/pie/pi theme ideas. The pizza pie piece eventually fell by the wayside, except for its circular shape. The puzzle went through some revisions of the fill, during which FULL got moved around a lot. I hadn’t realized what a hard word it was to “fill” around! I have to thank Will for livening up my clues. I was glad to see two of my favorites still there (for SERENADE and HOEDOWNS), but I can’t take any credit for “It wraps around a chest at the beach”! Hope you enjoy the π. Indeed we did, Ms. O’Conor. Your thoughts? Updated, 8:55 a.m. | In an earlier version of this post, I had written that the area of a circle is “2 PI R” and the circumference is “PI R SQUARED”. Thanks to alert readers, I was reminded that it’s the opposite, and I’ve fixed it in my post. Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. David Kahn puts us through the wringer.Read more… Emily Cox and Henry Rathvon offer us a challenging cryptic crossword puzzle.Read more… A place for solvers to discuss and ask questions about the “A Little Variety” suite of puzzles.Read more… Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   Fissures in China’s Ethnic Policy. Advertisement The Chinese man spying on the daughter of a prominent political prisoner at the United Nations in Geneva last week probably didn’t expect to be expelled from the international body. But the United Nations stripped him of his pass as a representative of the China Association for Preservation and Development of Tibetan Culture, a group tied to the Communist Party’s United Front Work Department. The association was accredited as a nongovernmental organization at the Human Rights Council meeting where the incident took place, but his behavior didn’t conform to what most people think of when they think of NGOs. He photographed Ti-Anna Wang and her laptop screen in what United Nations officials deemed ‘‘intimidation and harassment.’’ The almost amateur espionage involving a camera device hidden inside the man’s coat — Ms. Wang, who was there to testify about her imprisoned father, Wang Bingzhang, said in an interview she found it intimidating but also silly — prompted a prominent scholar of Tibet to see it as a reflection of deeper questions facing the United Front, long highly influential in ethnic policy in regions such as Tibet and Xinjiang but losing influence as violence there spirals. ‘‘This is symbolic, but it’s often symbolic issues that are crucial in the rise and fall of Chinese policies and politicians,’’ said Robert J. Barnett, director of the Modern Tibet Studies Program at Columbia University. ‘‘I think this is a large crack in the wall that the United Front has built around itself from a lot of internal pressures it’s under now since the disasters of 2008 in Tibet and 2009 in Xinjiang, and now Kunming,’’ Mr. Barnett said. He was referring to two eruptions of violence involving Tibetans and Uighurs, and a knife attack in a train station in February in which the attackers — the government says they were from Xinjiang — killed 29 people. Scores of self-immolations in Tibetan areas and regular clashes between Uighurs and security forces in Xinjiang, present a picture of worsening relations between the ethnic Han majority and the two most politically sensitive minorities. Have these events led China’s leaders to question existing ethnic policies? Yes, said James Leibold, a political historian and ethnicity specialist at La Trobe University in Australia, in an interview. ‘‘There is a perception of rising ethnic problems,’’ he said. And under the new administration of Xi Jinping, ‘‘There’s a bit of a turf war over ethnic policy.’’ Said Mr. Barnett, ‘‘We know that the leadership is being talked to by a lot of advisers saying, ‘You should do things this way,’ and that debate is happening, and it didn’t happen before.’’ One view, associated with Ma Rong, a sociology professor at Peking University, argues for assimilation: remove the ethnic identification from identity cards, end affirmative action for education and birth quotas, make everyone ‘‘Chinese’’ just as everyone in the United States is American. Black people in the United States don’t agitate for a separate country, is the thinking, Mr. Barnett said. The government has been too generous, and that’s the reason for the violence, runs this view. Said Mr. Leibold, ‘‘It seems that Xi right now is trying to take an ideological approach,’’ by emphasizing ‘‘the importance of the Chinese nation and the Chinese people.’’ The department was long charged with winning ‘‘middle elements’’ for the Communist cause. Ethnic minorities were a key target. It also identified ‘‘diehard elements,’’ or enemies of Communism. For publicly calling for her father’s release, Ms. Wang could be seen as one. With the United Front weakening, the State Ethnic Affairs Commission may have a growing say in policy. But increasingly important is Yu Zhengsheng, a member of the Politburo Standing Committee, the scholars said. In 2013 Mr. Xi made Mr. Yu head of the party ‘‘leading small group’’ on Tibet and Xinjiang. ‘‘Real policy-making power flows through individuals and their patronage networks rather than bureaucratic organs, suggesting the bureaucratic turf war over ethnic policy will continue,’’ Mr. Leibold said. Sinosphere, the China blog of The New York Times, delivers intimate, authoritative coverage of the planet's most populous nation and its relationship with the rest of the world. Drawing on timely, engaging dispatches from The Times’ distinguished team of China correspondents, this blog brings readers into the debates and discussions taking place inside a fast-changing country and details the cultural, economic and political developments shaping the lives of 1.3 billion people. Some called on the government to send troops to the Middle East in retaliation to an Islamic State killing, while others cautioned that such a move could invite terrorism at home.Read more… The dissidents had won official recognition as refugees and had been previously detained in China for their activism, Chris Buckley reports.Read more… Human rights advocates listened with a mixture of incredulity and derision to the delegation’s responses on interrogation, Nick Cumming-Bruce reports. Read more… In the Philippines for an Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit, President Obama urged China to halt military activities on the disputed islands, Michael D. Shear reports. Read more… The dead, including women and children, were said to have been involved in a knife attack in September that left 50 people dead at a mine near the Kyrgyzstan border, Javier C. Hernández reports. Read more… Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Science   Exercising for Healthier Eyes Sign Up for the Running Email. Advertisement Gretchen Reynolds on the science of fitness. Age-related vision loss is common and devastating. But new research suggests that physical activity might protect our eyes as we age. There have been suggestions that exercise might reduce the risk of macular degeneration, which occurs when neurons in the central part of the retina deteriorate. The disease robs millions of older Americans of clear vision. A 2009 study of more than 40,000 middle-aged distance runners, for instance, found that those covering the most miles had the least likelihood of developing the disease. But the study did not compare runners to non-runners, limiting its usefulness. It also did not try to explain how exercise might affect the incidence of an eye disease. So, more recently, researchers at Emory University in Atlanta and the Atlanta Veterans Administration Medical Center in Decatur, Ga., took up that question for a study published last month in The Journal of Neuroscience. Their interest was motivated in part by animal research at the V.A. medical center. That work had determined that exercise increases the levels of substances known as growth factors in the animals’ bloodstream and brains. These growth factors, especially one called brain-derived neurotrophic factor, or B.D.N.F., are known to contribute to the health and well-being of neurons and consequently, it is thought, to improvements in brain health and cognition after regular exercise. But the brain is not the only body part to contain neurons, as the researchers behind the new study knew. The retina does as well, and the researchers wondered whether exercise might raise levels of B.D.N.F. there, too, potentially affecting retinal health and vision. To test that possibility, the researchers gathered adult, healthy lab mice. Half of these were allowed to remain sedentary throughout the day, while the other animals began running on little treadmills at a gentle rodent pace for about an hour a day. After two weeks, half of the mice in each group were exposed to a searingly bright light for four hours. The other animals stayed in dimly lit cages. This light exposure is a widely used and accepted means of inducing retinal degeneration in animals. It doesn’t precisely mimic the slowly progressing disease in humans, obviously. But it causes a comparable if time-compressed loss of retinal neurons. The mice then returned to their former routine — running or not exercising — for another two weeks, after which the scientists measured the number of neurons in each animal’s eyes. The unexercised mice exposed to the bright light were experiencing, by then, severe retinal degeneration. Almost 75 percent of the neurons in their retinas that detect light had died. The animals’ vision was failing. But the mice that had exercised before being exposed to the light retained about twice as many functioning retinal neurons as the sedentary animals; in addition, those cells were more responsive to normal light than the surviving retinal neurons in the unexercised mice. Exercise, it seems, had armored the runners’ retinas. Separately, the researchers had other mice run or sit around for two weeks, and then measured levels of B.D.N.F. in their eyes and bloodstreams. The runners had far more. Tellingly, when the scientists injected still other mice with a chemical that blocks the uptake of the growth factor before allowing them to run and exposing them to the bright light, their eyes deteriorated as badly as among sedentary rodents. When the mice could not process B.D.N.F., exercise did not safeguard their eyes. Taken together, these experiments strongly suggest that “exercise protects vision, at least in mice, by increasing B.D.N.F. in the retina,” said Jeffrey Boatright, an associate professor of ophthalmology at Emory University School of Medicine and a co-author of the study. But obviously, mice are not people, so whether exercise can prevent or ameliorate macular degeneration in human eyes is “impossible to know, based on the data we have now,” said Machelle Pardue, a research career scientist at the Atlanta Veterans Administration Medical Center, who is the senior author of the study. She and her colleagues are trying to find ways to determine the impact of exercise on human eyes. But such experiments will take years to return results. For now, she and Dr. Boatright said, people who are concerned about their vision, and especially those with a family history of retinal degeneration, might want to discuss an exercise program with their doctor. “As potential treatments go,” she said, “it’s cheap, easy and safe.” Dr. Boatright agreed, adding that eye researchers have been trying for some time to find a way to externally deliver growth factors or drugs to aging eyes, but the available methods typically involve injections into the retina, a process that is complicated, chancy, pricey, and fundamentally objectionable. Now, though, “it’s beginning to look like we may have this other method” — exercise — “that costs almost nothing and results in you making your own growth factors, which is so much safer and more pleasant than having a needle stuck into your eyeball,” he said, getting no disagreement from me. Your health questions answered by Times journalists and experts. Your Questions | All » Get Well's Running email for practical tips, expert advice, exclusive content and a bit of motivation delivered to your inbox every week to help you on your running journey. Coming soon. How much do you know about the amazing things that go on in your gut? Take our quiz to find out about the creepy, crawly critters living in your home. What surface is the most friendly to the flu virus? Where’s the best place to stand when you’re talking to a sick person? How does sleep affect health, relationships and well-being? The “Reading the Mind in the Eyes Test” measures ability to understand others’ emotional states. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   Antarctica, by Boot and by Board. Channels & Shows Home Search Sports Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Sports Antarctica, by Boot and by Board By Justin Sablich | Mar. 26, 2014 | 3:38 Before embarking on an expedition, Jeremy Jones and Xavier de Le Rue tend to have a clear mission. For their trip to Antarctica, however, they simply aimed to explore new terrain. Show More PlaylistUp Next in Sports Next →   The Royal Family1:33 Prince Harry Promotes Invictus Games   Europe0:60 Police Accept Blame for Hillsborough Disaster   Europe0:46 Families Sing After Hillsborough Ruling   Sports1:24 UConn Reflects on Record-Breaking Win   News Clips: Sports2:20 John John Florence Wins ‘the Eddie’   Sports1:51 ‘Human Sacrifice’: Debating Football’s Future   Blood and Sport3:32 Ken Stabler and C.T.E.   Sports5:01 Addicted to a Fantasy   Paris Attacks1:51 French Soccer Team Sings National Anthem   Sports6:27 Drone Racing Dreams © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Technology   The Future of Virtual Reality. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Video The Future of Virtual Reality Mar. 27, 2014 | 1:24 In a video for the Founders Fund, a venture capital firm, Palmer Luckey, a founder of Oculus VR, imagined the impact virtual reality could have beyond the world of gaming. Show More PlaylistUp Next in Video Next → Op-Docs: Season 5 9:23 I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked   Video1:08 Hitting all the Right Notes Op-Docs: Season 5 13:33 Manufacturing China’s Future Op-Docs: Season 5 6:05 Fashion vs. Art   Video0:56 Excerpt: ‘The Father’   Video0:33 Excerpt: ‘Exit Strategy’ Op-Docs: Season 5 7:19 A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race   Video1:58 Excerpt: ‘Antlia Pneumatica’   News Clips: Europe1:20 Officials React to Panama Papers   News Clips: Europe3:47 Mossack Fonseca on Data Leak © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Travel   A Charleston Hotel With an Interest in Building. Advertisement When Belmond Charleston Place invites its guests to get plastered, they’re not talking about hitting the bar. The luxury hotel is offering a Charleston Building Arts Package that includes a two-night stay with a hands-on plaster lesson at the American College of the Building Arts and admission for two to the 1808 Nathaniel Russell House to see examples of plasterwork and other traditional building arts. Guests will begin by touring the downtown school, billed as the only liberal arts college in the country teaching traditional building arts, to learn about each of the trades taught there, including plasterwork, masonry, stone carving, timber framing, ironworking and carpentry. Then they’ll join students for an opportunity to create plasterwork as it has been done for hundreds of years, making castings (pouring plaster into molds to create designs), creating and shaping intricate crown molding and even building a plaster souvenir to take home. The arts package, starting at $380 per night, includes a plaster lesson for one (additional lesson at $150), admission for two to the Nathaniel Russell House, two nights’ accommodation and breakfast for two daily. Plaster lessons, and some additional college sessions, are available Tuesday through Thursday mornings until April 17 (fall package dates will become available.). In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
U.S.   Official Gets Emotional About Landslide. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Video Official Gets Emotional About Landslide Mar. 26, 2014 | 1:03 John Pennington, the Snohomish County emergency management director, teared up as he talked about the deadly landslide in the region. Related: article: After Mountain’s Collapse, Uncertainty and Loss Show More PlaylistUp Next in Video Next → Op-Docs: Season 5 9:23 I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked   Video1:08 Hitting all the Right Notes Op-Docs: Season 5 13:33 Manufacturing China’s Future Op-Docs: Season 5 6:05 Fashion vs. Art   Video0:56 Excerpt: ‘The Father’   Video0:33 Excerpt: ‘Exit Strategy’ Op-Docs: Season 5 7:19 A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race   Video1:58 Excerpt: ‘Antlia Pneumatica’   News Clips: Europe1:20 Officials React to Panama Papers   News Clips: Europe3:47 Mossack Fonseca on Data Leak © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Business   Extreme Piques. Advertisement By David J. Kahn Mar 28, 2014 The New York Times Crossword is available through subscription only. FRIDAY’S PUZZLE — We have a Friday puzzle with a little something extra. David J. Kahn is back, and he has stuck an endorsement for the movie “CAPTAIN PHILLIPS” smack in the middle of the grid, so we have a minitheme today. Not only do we have the 15-letter CAPTAIN PHILLIPS stretching across the grid, but we also have his captors, the SOMALI PIRATES crossing him at 16 Down. Mr. Kahn’s puzzle is a near-whop, with 11 unique entries, and it’s quite open for a 72-word puzzle, isn’t it? Besides the minitheme, I really liked LOSE ONE’S MARBLES, ALEXANDER CALDER (I can still remember learning about his kinetic sculptures in art class), TRILBY (a hat with a mellifluous name), and SOURCES OF INCOME, which sounds kind of contrived, but is crunchy nonetheless. I also liked BUMMERS, BLIMEY, BLUE CHIPS, ALL SET and KLEBAN. Add to that the double stacks near the top and bottom of the grid and BLIMEY, this is a fun puzzle. For my money, Clue of the Day goes to 1 Across’s “Those who respond to pickup lines?” for CABBIES. That’s a lot funnier if you live or work in a big city and have to stand in line for a cab. Let’s hear from Mr. Kahn: I loved the Tom Hanks movie and decided to write a Friday puzzle with a minitheme after seeing that CAPTAIN PHILLIPS crosses SOMALI PIRATES in the middle of the grid. I also decided to include four more 15-letter answers and that’s why there are relatively few black squares in this, a 72-word puzzle. Nicely done, Mr. Kahn. Your thoughts? Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. David Kahn puts us through the wringer.Read more… Emily Cox and Henry Rathvon offer us a challenging cryptic crossword puzzle.Read more… A place for solvers to discuss and ask questions about the “A Little Variety” suite of puzzles.Read more… Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Business   Extreme Piques. Advertisement By David J. Kahn Mar 28, 2014 The New York Times Crossword is available through subscription only. FRIDAY’S PUZZLE — We have a Friday puzzle with a little something extra. David J. Kahn is back, and he has stuck an endorsement for the movie “CAPTAIN PHILLIPS” smack in the middle of the grid, so we have a minitheme today. Not only do we have the 15-letter CAPTAIN PHILLIPS stretching across the grid, but we also have his captors, the SOMALI PIRATES crossing him at 16 Down. Mr. Kahn’s puzzle is a near-whop, with 11 unique entries, and it’s quite open for a 72-word puzzle, isn’t it? Besides the minitheme, I really liked LOSE ONE’S MARBLES, ALEXANDER CALDER (I can still remember learning about his kinetic sculptures in art class), TRILBY (a hat with a mellifluous name), and SOURCES OF INCOME, which sounds kind of contrived, but is crunchy nonetheless. I also liked BUMMERS, BLIMEY, BLUE CHIPS, ALL SET and KLEBAN. Add to that the double stacks near the top and bottom of the grid and BLIMEY, this is a fun puzzle. For my money, Clue of the Day goes to 1 Across’s “Those who respond to pickup lines?” for CABBIES. That’s a lot funnier if you live or work in a big city and have to stand in line for a cab. Let’s hear from Mr. Kahn: I loved the Tom Hanks movie and decided to write a Friday puzzle with a minitheme after seeing that CAPTAIN PHILLIPS crosses SOMALI PIRATES in the middle of the grid. I also decided to include four more 15-letter answers and that’s why there are relatively few black squares in this, a 72-word puzzle. Nicely done, Mr. Kahn. Your thoughts? Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. David Kahn puts us through the wringer.Read more… Emily Cox and Henry Rathvon offer us a challenging cryptic crossword puzzle.Read more… A place for solvers to discuss and ask questions about the “A Little Variety” suite of puzzles.Read more… Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   Image of the Day: March 27. Advertisement India’s national elections began April 7 and will continue on nine separate dates until May 12, with results expected to be announced on May 16. The vote is the world’s largest, with 814 million eligible voters set to choose 543 members of the lower house of Parliament. The other two seats will be appointed by the president. This election is widely considered to be India’s most consequential since 1977. India Ink will be moving to the World page of The New York Times. Read more… A memorial ceremony at the Imphal War Cemetery in Manipur to honor the soldiers who died during World War II.Read more… The newly elected prime minister reaches out to the public in a blog post about his first 30 days in office.Read more… Newborns whose mothers are unable to breastfeed are given stored breast milk to protect them from potentially life-threatening infection.Read more… In the final stage of a long decline, Hindustan Motors announced in May that it would suspend production of the Ambassador, a car that was once synonymous with style and status.Read more… This report on India from the journalists of The New York Times and a pool of talented writers in India and beyond provides unbiased, authoritative reporting on the country and its place in the world. India Ink also strives to be a virtual meeting point for discussion of this complex, fast-changing democracy – its politics, economy, culture and everyday life. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Health   Ten Key Questions on Health Care Enrollment. Advertisement Advertisement By WILSON ANDREWS, HAEYOUN PARK and ARCHIE TSE MARCH 27, 2014  Share Your Experience With the Affordable Care Act If you are uninsured but have not yet signed up for health insurance, or do not intend to, we invite you to tell us your story. INITIAL GOAL 7 million ENROLLMENT More than 6 million Enrollment vs. monthly goals Source: Department of Health and Human Services   At the end of: Oct. 2013 Nov. Dec. Jan. 2014 Feb. March INITIAL GOAL 7 million Enrollment vs. monthly goals ENROLLMENT More than 6 million Source: Department of Health and Human Services   At the end of: Oct. 2013 Nov. Dec. Jan. 2014 Feb. March STATE-RUN EXCHANGES 21% Percentage of eligible population reached FEDERAL EXCHANGE 13% Sources: University of Pennsylvania; Kaiser Family Foundation   At the end of: Oct. 2013 Nov. Dec. Jan. 2014 Feb. STATE-RUN EXCHANGES 21% Percentage of eligible population reached FEDERAL EXCHANGE 13% Sources: Kaiser Family Foundation; University of Pennsylvania   At the end of: Oct. 2013 Nov. Dec. Jan. 2014 Feb. Age of potential enrollees Age of enrollees 55+ 35-54 18-34 <18 30% 39% 25% 6% 17% 37% 40% 6% Sources: Kaiser Family Foundation; Department of Health and Human Services   Age of enrollees 55+ 35-54 18-34 <18 30% 39% 25% 6% Age of potential enrollees 55+ 35-54 18-34 <18 17% 37% 40% 6% Sources: Kaiser Family Foundation; Department of Health and Human Services   What plans are being chosen Platinum Gold Silver Bronze Catastrophic 6% 11% 63% 18% 1% Source: Department of Health and Human Services   What plans are being chosen Platinum Gold Silver Bronze Catastrophic 6% 11% 63% 18% 1% Source: Department of Health and Human Services   Note: The eligible population includes legal residents who are uninsured or who buy plans on the individual market, have incomes above Medicaid/Children’s Health Insurance Program eligibility levels, and who do not have access to employer-sponsored coverage.
Home   Bringing 3-D Power to the People. Advertisement Advertisement By STEVEN KURUTZMARCH 26, 2014 Industrial 3-D printing facilities, like Shapeways in Long Island City, are revolutionizing product design and manufacture. The first thing Duann Scott does when he arrives at the Shapeways factory in Long Island City, Queens, is check the bins. They are yellow and stacked in an all-white room that resembles the interior of a spaceship, and they contain the latest prints to come out of the machines, which can really stack up. Shapeways, a 3-D printing service and online marketplace, has been described as the Amazon of 3-D printing for its on-demand model, if not its outsize volume: The machines spit out about 120,000 objects a month, a tidal flow of design that runs from the mundane to the astonishing. On a recent day, a quick search through the bins revealed a pair of pliable black-frame eyeglasses, a scale model of a biplane, an intricately detailed brass ring, enough plastic train cars to form a miniature railroad and a figurine of two tiny purple women on tiny purple trapezes. To what use any of these things will be put, Mr. Scott usually has not a clue. But that doesn’t diminish the Christmas-morning grin he gets while he is fishing through them. Mr. Scott, a tall, bearded man of 39 who was born in Australia, holds the title of designer evangelist at Shapeways. He judges 3-D design competitions, gives talks at schools and businesses, and attends events like South by Southwest Interactive, in Austin, Tex., where earlier this month he and his co-workers took a 3-D scanner to parties. (Willing guests were scanned and could order a figurine of themselves printed by Shapeways.) Mr. Scott also spends a good portion of his day searching not just the bins, but all the designs uploaded to the Shapeways website, for the 3-D-modeled equivalent of a gold nugget. Impressed by a designer’s work, he will call and offer the use of company resources, or feature the designer on the Shapeways blog, or extend an invitation to a party — or, as he did with Bradley Rothenberg, a Manhattan-based architect and designer, recommend the person in question to brands with an interest in 3-D printing. Advertisement After seeing Mr. Rothenberg give a talk about a year ago, Mr. Scott suggested him to representatives from Victoria’s Secret. The designer modeled snowflake angel wings and other pieces based on sketches by the Victoria’s Secret design team, which were then worn by the models in the Victoria’s Secret fashion show late last year, garnering attention for Shapeways, which printed the nylon plastic pieces, and for Mr. Rothenberg. “I keep my eye on talent,” Mr. Scott said. “I’ve always got this group of amazing designers in the back of my mind if someone needs to connect with them.” Other 3-D printing services exist, including Sculpteo and Materialise, but most of them are based in Europe. Kraftwurx, a Houston company, provides on-demand printing and a venue for designers to sell their work, but it doesn’t yet have the robust public presence of Shapeways, which sponsors design contests, courts talented designers and partners with museums. In his role as a Pied Piper for on-demand 3-D printing, Mr. Scott has been instrumental in developing that relationship with the design community. Some designers, like Mr. Rothenberg, use the company’s sophisticated, highly accurate printers to make prototypes or produce their work. Others, though, are treating the company as an everything-in-one platform: manufacturer, e-retailer and venue for propelling their careers. Susan Taing, who started a 3-D design studio called bhold, is one of those who has developed a close partnership with Shapeways. Ms. Taing, 33, first experimented with 3-D printing and modeling as a hobby, designing simple things like an earbud cord winder. Last year, she used Shapeways to print the device, which she called the bsnug wrap, and began selling the tool through the Shapeways website. “Every few days I got more ideas as to what I could do with 3-D printing,” said Ms. Taing, whose offerings now include the bholdable espresso tumbler ($69) and the bheard sound pod ($39.50), an acoustic amplifier for smartphones. “I’d been thinking about starting a company, and once the concept came, it felt right.” It was the Shapeways “lower risk, lower barrier” model, Ms. Taing said, that made it possible for her to start her own business. Because Shapeways prints on demand, there were no discouraging upfront manufacturing costs; Shapeways also handled time-consuming back-end processes like billing, shipping and customer service. Ms. Taing simply uploaded a printable design, set a price above the cost Shapeways charged her to print and paid the 3.5 percent processing fee out of her profit. And she was assured that supply would exactly meet demand. “You don’t have to manage inventory for something that may or may not be needed,” she said. “It’s much less wasteful.” Evan Gant, an industrial designer in Massachusetts, said if not for Shapeways, many of the ideas he comes up with in his spare time would never make it out of his notebook. “To develop a product takes a tremendous amount of time,” he said. “There’s not only initial conception and design, but beyond that there’s a massive amount of funding, you have to find the right manufacturer, you have to understand retail.” Advertisement It’s unlikely that Mr. Gant or any outside investors would have devoted significant resources to manufacturing Button 2.0, a shirt button with a clip that he designed to secure an earbud cord. (Stray earbud cords, it seems, are one of the trials of modern life.) But after uploading a computer-aided design (CAD)  model to Shapeways, he received an instant production quote and ordered a few to test. And once he refined his design, he sold them. Total R&D: about $15. “I think Shapeways charged $2.50 to make that button, and I added $1.50,” Mr. Gant said, for his own profit. With Shapeways handling the manufacturing and back end, “what you’re left with is conceptualizing the design,” he said. “And documenting it to get your story out there.” Although Shapeways promotes designers and tries to “surface,” from the tens of thousands of items for sale on its site, what it thinks are the best goods, marketing is largely left to the designers, as are patent issues. Mr. Scott’s favorite designers to work with, he said, are the ones who grasp form and 3-D printing technology, but can also produce a good video or photography. “Once we see someone can do that well, we’ll promote them and help them to improve as much as we can,” he said. “Because the more successful they are, the more successful we are.” Advertisement And users like Mr. Gant have accepted and even embraced those self-promotional duties. Mr. Gant currently offers eight products for sale in his Shapeways shop (not including Button 2.0, which he stopped selling after someone claimed an existing patent). They range from a modular flower-planter system ($75) to a liquid-siphoning toy for children ($12). To promote them, he posts professional-looking photos or videos, and often reaches out to design blogs. A calm female voice narrates all the videos. Could that be Mr. Gant’s wife? “Yes,” he said, laughing. “It gets very low-budget.” Still, that sense of play and experimentation, in both the design and the marketing, is part of the appeal. “With Shapeways, the risk is so little,” Mr. Gant said. “It’s not like I’m going to China and producing 10,000 of them.” Advertisement The other big attraction for designers is the company’s printers. Boxy, refrigerator-size machines that glow orange when working, they can print objects of greater size and complexity than desktop 3-D printers can. And through partners, Shapeways offers access to materials like gold-plated and polished brass, stainless steel and ceramics. The objects have the professional-looking finish that the marketplace or the art gallery demands. Ashley Zelinskie, 26, a sculptor who works with 3-D printing, tried using a desktop machine to print a full-size chair whose structure was embedded with hexadecimal code readable by a computer. Influenced by “One and Three Chairs,” a conceptual art piece by Joseph Kosuth, the project was an exercise in high-tech frustration. “It took me two years of printing every day, and then I lost my mind,” Ms. Zelinskie said. She bought a nanny cam to keep tabs on the glitchy machine in her studio and later moved it to her apartment. “I got to the point where I could be asleep and hear it messing up,” she said. Last December, Ms. Zelinskie contacted Shapeways to print her chair. When the nylon plastic pieces arrived at her house a few days later, she said, “the chair was built within minutes. The parts snapped together easily. It was clean, professional. It looked like it belonged in a gallery.” Ms. Zelinskie’s “One and One Chair” now sits on the second floor of the Museum of Art and Design in Manhattan. Shapeways has an interactive space there as part of “Out of Hand: Materializing the Postdigital,” an exhibition on computer-assisted methods of production. It was Mr. Scott, in his evangelist role, who invited Ms. Zelinskie to become a Shapeways artist-in-residence at the museum. “Shapeways has really backed me,” Ms. Zelinskie said. “They point me in the direction of new materials. They did a blog post on me. If you’re with them, you’re in.” Dhemerae Ford, half of a design duo called the Laser Girls, has been similarly fostered by the company. She and her partner, Sarah C. Awad, worked at the 3-D printing lab at New York University, where they began making fake fingernails in wild designs. They used N.Y.U.’s printers for prototypes, but as Ms. Awad said, “Shapeways has printers that N.Y.U. doesn’t have,” offering materials like nylon and metal. And “we could more easily produce and send out nails to buyers.” Around the same time, Mr. Scott noticed that an acrylic that Shapeways makes is similar to the material used for fake nails, and he looked for designers willing to experiment. “I’d been contacting women on Instagram who are into nails,” he said, adding with a laugh, “I know that sounds bad.” Advertisement The Laser Girls met representatives from Shapeways at a tech event last fall, and have since begun selling their nails through the company’s site, printing them in standard materials like nylon plastic, but also bronze-infused stainless steel. “They’ve helped us a lot from a business sense,” Ms. Ford said. “In terms of design, they’ve given us ideas for ways we can push the technology.” Of the Laser Girls, who are in their early 20s, Mr. Scott said: “It’s not always established designers who are doing some of the best work. It’s kids coming out of school and really kicking it.” And that, he said, is part of the joy of discovery. For New York designers, Shapeways also offers the advantage of proximity. Ms. Taing, for instance, runs her design studio from a tiny office in Long Island City, where on a recent afternoon a MakerBot desktop printer was humming away in a corner, producing a prototype that may eventually be sent to Shapeways, if it proved functional. The office is just one block from the factory, and Ms. Taing has visited several times, to resolve production issues and to speed the delivery by picking up finished prints. One of the few complaints about Shapeways, it seems, is its turnaround time. It can take a week or longer, depending on the material, to fulfill an order. (“The two weeks is rough,” Ms. Ford said.) And the company doesn’t ship partial orders. Also, as Ms. Taing pointed out, Sculpteo, a rival on-demand printing service in France, has much wider color options, while Materialise, a firm in Belgium, offers titanium, a material Ms. Ford wants to try. Nevertheless, Ms. Taing and Ms. Ford said they use Shapeways for much of their printing because the company is local and consistent in its quality, and it supports the 3-D design community. Ms. Ford said: “I’ve been to their factory. It’s very homey. I was welcomed less as a customer than as someone who is interested in the technology. We all geeked-out over the printers for 30 minutes.” The manufacturing process for nylon plastic, the most common material, could be described as a blend of high-tech and high-school art class. Engineers approve the uploaded design files and assign them to a “build,” in which as many objects as possible, perhaps 1,000, are virtually fitted together, as if in a game of 3-D Tetris. The build comes out of the 3-D printers in a square cake of nylon powder. The cakes are cooled and the powder brushed off to reveal the objects inside, a process Raheel Valiani, the director of operations for the Queens factory, likened to an archaeological dig. Advertisement Young, hip-looking factory workers then sort the objects, hand-color some of them using boiled fabric dyes (white is the default shade for nylon plastic) and package and place them in the yellow bins to be shipped out. Shapeways, which started in the Netherlands in 2007, as part of an incubator run by Philips, the electronics maker, initially outsourced its 3-D printing. Now there are two factories, one in Queens and the other in Eindhoven in the Netherlands; the one here is adding four printers to its fleet of 12, at a cost of $500,000 or more each. The hope is that the new machines will increase capacity, speed up work flow and bring Shapeways closer to its long-term goal of overnight fulfillment. Of the thousands of objects printed each week, iPhone accessories and hobbyist parts like model railroad cars are the most common, Mr. Scott said, as is jewelry. “Drone parts are currently very popular, too,” he added. Still, despite the production volume, and a few breakout objects that have sold in the thousands of units, most designers aren’t getting rich selling their products through Shapeways. The company declined to disclose combined earnings for its 15,000 shop owners. Mr. Gant estimates that he has made about $800 so far through his Shapeways shop, but has spent about $300 on prototypes and printing his designs. As Mr. Scott noted, however, once a product has been designed and uploaded, there is potential for its designer to earn royalty-driven passive income, something Mr. Gant has experienced. “I will still, weekly, get a couple sales,” he said. “It still slowly trickles in. As I do more products, the trickle gets a little bigger.” Mr. Scott said he is looking forward to the first Shapeways millionaire. Perhaps it will be him. In addition to promoting all the designers who use Shapeways, he is a designer himself. Bits to Atoms, a digital fabrication studio and consultancy he founded, has a Shapeways shop where you can buy the bronze skull ring that he wears on his right hand. That ring was the second design Mr. Scott uploaded, and it inspired his first act of evangelism. He photographed it and sent the photos to jewelry blogs. He earned a few thousand dollars from sales. “For months afterwards, I would sell a few more rings and make more money,” Mr. Scott said. “I started documenting what I did and shouting to the world: ‘This is the future of design.’ ” A version of this article appears in print on March 27, 2014, on page D1 of the New York edition with the headline: Bringing 3-D Power to the People. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Movies   This Week’s Movies. Channels & Shows Home Search Culture Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos The ultimate film lover’s guide: The Times critics A.O. Scott, Manohla Dargis and Stephen Holden offer their picks for the week’s best movies, from blockbusters to hidden gems. Recent Episodes in This Week’s Movies This Week’s Movies Culture 3:14 This Week’s Movies | April 8, 2016 This Week’s Movies Culture 3:34 This Week’s Movies | April 1, 2016 This Week’s Movies Culture 3:20 This Week’s Movies | March 25, 2016 This Week’s Movies Culture 3:33 This Week’s Movies: March 18, 2016 This Week’s Movies Culture 3:07 This Week’s Movies | March 11, 2016 This Week’s Movies Culture 3:03 This Week’s Movies | March 4, 2016 This Week’s Movies Culture 3:15 This Week’s Movies | Feb. 26, 2016 This Week’s Movies Culture 3:19 This Week’s Movies | Feb. 19, 2016 This Week’s Movies Culture 3:11 This Week’s Movies | Feb. 12, 2016 Show more videos from This Week’s Movies Most Popular 1 Food Coconut Cluster Granola 2 U.S. Best of Obama's Correspondents' Dinner Speech 3 Opinion Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics 4 U.S. Obama Delivers Howard’s Commencement 5 Fashion & Style Bill Cunningham | Garden Party 6 U.S. Copwatch vs. Cops: After Freddie Gray 7 World The Killing of Farkhunda 8 U.S. Welfare and the Politics of Poverty 9 Multimedia/Photos Illustrated Interview | Buzz Aldrin 10 Movies This Week’s Movies | May 6, 2016 © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Science   Anti-Anxiety Drugs Tied to Higher Mortality Sign Up for the Running Email. Advertisement A large study has linked several common anti-anxiety drugs and sleeping pills to an increased risk of death, although it’s not certain the drugs were the cause. For more than seven years, researchers followed 34,727 people who filled prescriptions for anti-anxiety medications like Valium and Xanax, or sleep aids like Ambien, Sonata and Lunesta, comparing them with 69,418 controls who did not. After adjusting for a wide variety of factors, the researchers found that people who took the drugs had more than double the risk of death. The study appears online in BMJ. The researchers tried to account for the use of other prescribed drugs, age, smoking, alcohol use, socioeconomic status, and other health and behavioral characteristics. Most important, the investigators also controlled for sleep disorders, anxiety disorders and other psychiatric illnesses, all of which are risk factors for mortality. The lead author, Dr. Scott Weich, a professor of psychiatry at the University of Warwick, said that while he and his colleagues were careful to account for as many potential risks as possible, they were not able to control for the severity of the illnesses suffered by the study participants. Still, he said, the research “adds to an accumulating body of evidence that these drugs are dangerous.” He added: “I prescribe these drugs, and they are difficult to come off. The less time you spend on them the better.” Your health questions answered by Times journalists and experts. Your Questions | All » Get Well's Running email for practical tips, expert advice, exclusive content and a bit of motivation delivered to your inbox every week to help you on your running journey. Coming soon. How much do you know about the amazing things that go on in your gut? Take our quiz to find out about the creepy, crawly critters living in your home. What surface is the most friendly to the flu virus? Where’s the best place to stand when you’re talking to a sick person? How does sleep affect health, relationships and well-being? The “Reading the Mind in the Eyes Test” measures ability to understand others’ emotional states. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   J.R. Smith, With Nine 3-Pointers, Keeps Knicks in Playoff Race. Advertisement Advertisement By SCOTT CACCIOLAMARCH 27, 2014 SACRAMENTO — One day removed from a blowout loss, the Knicks made their way to Sleep Train Arena on Wednesday night for a bit of therapy. That was the plan, anyway. The Kings, a woebegone outfit with zero plans for the postseason, looked to be more punchless than usual without their injured point guard, Isaiah Thomas. The Knicks are the Knicks, though, and against the Kings, that meant letting a huge lead evaporate in a game they really needed to win. It took an extraordinary effort from J. R. Smith to spare them the indignity of another colossal blunder in a season full of them, as the Knicks escaped with a 107-99 victory. “We’re fighting,” Coach Mike Woodson said. Smith tied a franchise record by sinking nine 3-pointers, and the Knicks (30-42) needed each of them to pull away with their playoff hopes still intact. Smith finished with 29 points, and Carmelo Anthony added 36 on the second leg of the Knicks’ five-game Western trip. “When he’s playing like that, it gets everybody going,” Anthony said of Smith. The Knicks, who shot 54.8 percent over all, were coming off a 31-point loss to the Los Angeles Lakers on Tuesday, a meltdown so spectacular that Phil Jackson, the team’s new president, left his private box in the fourth quarter so that he could walk his dog. He assessed the effort as “awful.” It was not the most measured response, but then little the Knicks have done this season merits diplomacy. Given that fiasco, and many others like it, the Knicks are in no position to be fussy about the quality of their wins. Consider the chase for the Eastern Conference’s eighth playoff seed, which has turned into a test to see who can be less futile, the Knicks or the Atlanta Hawks. The Hawks, who have a two-game lead (a term used liberally) for the final spot, are enduring their share of issues at the moment. They were crushed by the Minnesota Timberwolves on Wednesday. They have now lost 18 of their last 24 games. Though the Knicks are laboring to catch them, they took a halting step in the right direction in Sacramento, which has a reputation as one of the league’s more magnanimous landing spots for fragile teams. Having trouble defending? Struggling to convert those jumpers? Desperately in search of a win? The Kings (25-46) are ready to welcome you with open arms. Let the healing begin. It seemed that way for a while, through the first half and into the second, and the Knicks relished the experience, all their alley-oop dunks and open 3-pointers and easy pick-and-rolls resulting in a 74-50 lead early in the third quarter after Anthony drilled one of his five 3-pointers. But then familiar problems emerged, particularly on defense. The Kings were led by DeMarcus Cousins, their emotionally volatile but physically gifted center, who collected 32 points and 15 rebounds against a series of defenders who could do little to contain him. Advertisement “I love him, I love him,” Anthony said. “I’m trying to get him to calm down a little bit.” It was left to Smith to respond to everything the Kings threw at his team in the fourth quarter. After Rudy Gay drove for a dunk that cut the lead to 6, Smith drained a 3-pointer. After Ray McCallum and Gay scored consecutive hoops that cut the lead to 4, Smith drained a 3-pointer. After Cousins converted a 3-point play that cut the lead to 2, Smith drained a 3-pointer. “We didn’t get rattled by their runs,” the Knicks’ Tyson Chandler said. “We kept our composure.” Anthony twisted his right ankle in the fourth quarter but said he would be ready for Friday’s game against the Phoenix Suns. Securing a spot in the playoffs would go a long way toward erasing some of the struggles he has endured, he said. Everyone starts fresh in the postseason. “I’ve never had a losing record before,” Anthony said, “so this year has been a very challenging year, mentally, emotionally. But I still find ways to just remain positive throughout the situation and try to win basketball games. We still have a chance to get in the postseason. That’s most important.” Go to Home Page »
Technology   Microsoft Unveils Office App for iPad. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Video Microsoft Unveils Office App for iPad Mar. 28, 2014 | 1:53 Microsoft’s chief executive, Satya Nadella, and the general manager of Microsoft Office, Julia White, announced the new Office app for iPad, part of an effort to expand to other devices. Show More PlaylistUp Next in Video Next → Op-Docs: Season 5 9:23 I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked   Video1:08 Hitting all the Right Notes Op-Docs: Season 5 13:33 Manufacturing China’s Future Op-Docs: Season 5 6:05 Fashion vs. Art   Video0:56 Excerpt: ‘The Father’   Video0:33 Excerpt: ‘Exit Strategy’ Op-Docs: Season 5 7:19 A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race   Video1:58 Excerpt: ‘Antlia Pneumatica’   News Clips: Europe1:20 Officials React to Panama Papers   News Clips: Europe3:47 Mossack Fonseca on Data Leak © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Travel   In India, a New Wellness Resort. Advertisement Ayurvedic treatments are staple options on the menus of resort and destination spas. But few offer 56 different ayurvedic choices and expand the realm of ayurveda to include consultations on diet and exercise, ambitious new ground staked out by the recently opened Indian wellness retreat Vana, Malsi Estate. In the foothills of the Himalayas in Uttarakhand state, the new 86-room resort takes a holistic approach to wellness. Upon arrival, guests meet with the staff ayurvedic doctor who prescribes aruyvedic treatments as well as alternative therapies like acupuncture or Tibetan massage based on wellness goals and body type. “Ayurveda is India’s traditional science of medicine and healing that dates back a few thousand years to its ancient scriptures. Literally, it means ‘the science of life,’” Veer Singh, the resort’s owner, said in an email. “It broadly consists of lifestyle advice, treatments and supplements. It believes that all health issues and ailments are the result of imbalance in the body.” The approach at Vana is serious, but the stay is nothing short of plush. Neutral-toned rooms channel a sense of calm, and some suites feature a plunge pool and a room designed for meditation. Common areas on the 21-acre grounds include indoor and outdoor pools, a gym, two restaurants and indoor and outdoor yoga areas. Rates start at $563 a day with a minimum stay of three nights, including daily treatments, meals, nonalcoholic drinks and airport transfers. In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
U.S.   Updates on Washington Landslide. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Video Updates on Washington Landslide Mar. 27, 2014 | 0:48 Washington State authorities spoke about the current number of deaths and said that crews were still working to recover bodies after a deadly landslide in Oso. Show More PlaylistUp Next in Video Next → Op-Docs: Season 5 9:23 I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked   Video1:08 Hitting all the Right Notes Op-Docs: Season 5 13:33 Manufacturing China’s Future Op-Docs: Season 5 6:05 Fashion vs. Art   Video0:56 Excerpt: ‘The Father’   Video0:33 Excerpt: ‘Exit Strategy’ Op-Docs: Season 5 7:19 A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race   Video1:58 Excerpt: ‘Antlia Pneumatica’   News Clips: Europe1:20 Officials React to Panama Papers   News Clips: Europe3:47 Mossack Fonseca on Data Leak © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Business   Period Sans Soleil. Advertisement By Barry C. Silk Mar 29, 2014 The New York Times Crossword is available through subscription only. SATURDAY’S PUZZLE — I love me a Barry Silk puzzle, but when you see his byline on a Saturday you know you’re in for a wild ride. That’s why I was so thrilled that I got 1 Across right off the bat. As soon as I saw the clue “It’s made from an ear and put in the mouth” I knew we were being misdirected. If something is made from an ear that’s not literally an organ, then it must be an ear of corn. And if it’s put in the mouth, then it must be a CORN COB PIPE. Easy peasy, right? Not so much the rest of the puzzle, although I had fun figuring the entries out. It was the tricky geographic references that nearly did me in. Did you know what the smallest member of the Council of Europe was? The answer is SAN MARINO. How about the BAY that Polar Bear Provincial Park borders? That’s HUDSON BAY. And the killer: “It’s between Buda and Pest”. That sounds like a Will Shortz clue to me, although I could be wrong. Buda and Pest were actually two separate cities, divided by the waltzing Danube River until 1873. If you’re wondering how a PURR might be a “Himalayan production”, then you clearly haven’t been watching enough kitty videos. But what I love the most is the way this puzzle is clued. It’s doable, but you have to work a lot to get on Mr. Silk’s and Will Shortz’s wavelength. This is Saturday, after all. “Supply one’s moving address?” sounds like someone sending out change-of-address cards, but it’s not, is it? It’s ORATE. “Copied the page?” has to make you think of paper, but today the answer is RAN AN ERRAND, which is what pages do. And “Half of nine?” is a brilliant clue for ENS. Count ’em up yourself. There are four letters in the word “nine” and half of them are ENS. All in all, there’s a lot of good, crunchy stuff in Mr. Silk’s puzzle. I especially liked ANCIENT ROME (and it’s Sondheim-like clue), STATE SECRET, POOL TABLE, TEA COZY and OKEECHOBEE. Go look for the ones you liked best and report back here. Let’s hear from Mr. Silk: My seed entries were the three bodies of water: HUDSON BAY, DANUBE RIVER, and OKEECHOBEE. Also, since I’m a big fan of music from the first two decades of rock and roll music, I frequently try to use songs from that era in my puzzles. This time, I was able to use ON A CAROUSEL although I wasn’t quite sure Will would go for it. Now, there’s a good song for moving on to the Variety puzzle: Your thoughts? Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. David Kahn puts us through the wringer.Read more… Emily Cox and Henry Rathvon offer us a challenging cryptic crossword puzzle.Read more… A place for solvers to discuss and ask questions about the “A Little Variety” suite of puzzles.Read more… Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Food   Melissa Clark. Channels & Shows Home Search Food Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos The author and cook Melissa Clark takes you into her kitchen to show you how easy it can be to make exquisite and delicious meals. Recent Episodes in Melissa Clark Melissa Clark Food 2:58 Chocolate Babka Melissa Clark Food 2:38 Baked Fish and Chips Melissa Clark Food 3:03 Chocolate Pavlova with Chocolate Mousse Melissa Clark Food 2:17 Alfajores Melissa Clark Food 1:42 Golden Leek and Potato Soup Melissa Clark Food 2:28 Chocolate Peppermint Bars Melissa Clark Food 1:60 Cheesy Pasta Bake Melissa Clark Food 3:03 Japanese Chicken and Root Vegetable Stew Melissa Clark Food 2:38 Turkish Burned Milk Pudding Show more videos from Melissa Clark Most Popular 1 Food Coconut Cluster Granola 2 U.S. Best of Obama's Correspondents' Dinner Speech 3 Opinion Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics 4 U.S. Obama Delivers Howard’s Commencement 5 Fashion & Style Bill Cunningham | Garden Party 6 U.S. Copwatch vs. Cops: After Freddie Gray 7 World The Killing of Farkhunda 8 U.S. Welfare and the Politics of Poverty 9 Multimedia/Photos Illustrated Interview | Buzz Aldrin 10 Movies This Week’s Movies | May 6, 2016 © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Foreign   In India, Some Misgivings About Abstention in U.N.’s Sri Lanka Vote. Advertisement   The council on Thursday voted 23 to 12 in favor of a resolution that calls on the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights to investigate allegations of serious violations and abuses of human rights by the two sides. Twelve countries abstained. Speaking to reporters on Friday morning, Finance Minister P. Chidambaram said he felt that India should have supported the resolution, a report in the Hindustan Times said, although he added that the country’s decision to abstain from voting was a neutral one. Local politicians in Tamil Nadu, where ethnic Tamils are sympathetic to the minority group in Sri Lanka, reacted with more indignation over India’s decision, which came a little more than a week before Indians were to begin voting in parliamentary elections. M. K. Stalin, the treasurer of the Dravida Munnettra Kazhagam party in Tamil Nadu, accused the central government of abandoning ethnic Tamils after his party pulled out of the governing coalition in 2013, The Times of India reported. India voted in favor of milder resolutions in 2012 and 2013, in which the United Nations Human Rights Council asked Sri Lanka to investigate mass civilian deaths in its 26-year civil war.  An estimated 40,000 people, mostly civilians, died in 2009 alone, during the final stages of the war. “India remains engaged in a substantial way in the relief, resettlement, rehabilitation and reconstruction process in Sri Lanka,” Dilip Sinha, India’s ambassador to the United Nations, said before the vote on Thursday. But he also said that human rights issues should be addressed through national mechanisms. “It has been India’s firm belief that adopting an intrusive approach that undermines national sovereignty and institutions is counterproductive,” Mr. Sinha said. Smruti S. Pattanaik, a research fellow at the Institute for Defense Studies and Analyses in New Delhi, said India’s view of Sri Lanka was no longer limited to its interest in ethnic Tamil issues. “Sri Lanka always says that India looks at Sri Lanka through the lens of Tamil Nadu,” she said. “But I would say that Sri Lanka tends to look at India through Jaffna,” she added, referring to the Tamil-dominated north that was, until recently, racked by an insurgency and civil war. “India’s policy has changed,” she said. “It wants to play a much more visible global role.” On Friday, the Sri Lankan government, in what many analysts said was a gesture of good will toward India for having abstained in the vote, said it would release 98 Indian fishermen detained in Sri Lanka, Reuters reported. The end of the civil war in Sri Lanka brought an increase in tensions between the two countries and Indian fisherman who were found entering Sri Lankan waters were detained by the Sri Lankan Navy. After the war, Sri Lankan boats increasingly began policing the waters between the two countries. Reached by phone, Syed Akbaruddin, the spokesman for the Indian Ministry of External Affairs, cautiously approved the decision to release the fishermen. “We see it as a good-will gesture and a first step to what could be a longer-term solution,” he said.   India’s national elections began April 7 and will continue on nine separate dates until May 12, with results expected to be announced on May 16. The vote is the world’s largest, with 814 million eligible voters set to choose 543 members of the lower house of Parliament. The other two seats will be appointed by the president. This election is widely considered to be India’s most consequential since 1977. India Ink will be moving to the World page of The New York Times. Read more… A memorial ceremony at the Imphal War Cemetery in Manipur to honor the soldiers who died during World War II.Read more… The newly elected prime minister reaches out to the public in a blog post about his first 30 days in office.Read more… Newborns whose mothers are unable to breastfeed are given stored breast milk to protect them from potentially life-threatening infection.Read more… In the final stage of a long decline, Hindustan Motors announced in May that it would suspend production of the Ambassador, a car that was once synonymous with style and status.Read more… This report on India from the journalists of The New York Times and a pool of talented writers in India and beyond provides unbiased, authoritative reporting on the country and its place in the world. India Ink also strives to be a virtual meeting point for discussion of this complex, fast-changing democracy – its politics, economy, culture and everyday life. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Health   The Weekly Health Quiz. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content The New York Times Health|The Weekly Health Quiz Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go http://nyti.ms/1guHV6C Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Health The Weekly Health Quiz In the news: bone-building exercises, smoking rates and norovirus. Test your knowledge of this week’s health news. MARCH 27, 2014 Karen Barrow/The New York Times Related Multimedia The Weekly Health Quiz MARCH 20, 2014 Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Movies   Diego Luna on ‘Cesar Chavez’. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Movies Diego Luna on ‘Cesar Chavez’ By Mekado Murphy | Mar. 28, 2014 | 1:41 The director discusses his new film about the labor leader and activist. Show More PlaylistUp Next in Movies Next → Anatomy of a Scene Culture2:13 Anatomy of a Scene | ‘Midnight Special’ This Week’s Movies Culture3:33 This Week’s Movies: March 18, 2016 Anatomy of a Scene Culture3:51 Anatomy of a Scene | ‘Krisha’ This Week’s Movies Culture3:28 This Week’s Movies | May 6, 2016 This Week’s Movies Culture3:28 This Week’s Movies | April 29, 2016 Anatomy of a Scene Culture2:41 Anatomy | ‘The Man Who Knew Infinity’   Culture3:41 There Is No Escaping Shakespeare This Week’s Movies Culture3:25 This Week’s Movies | April 22, 2016 Anatomy of a Scene Culture2:48 Anatomy of a Scene | ‘The Meddler’ This Week’s Movies Culture3:28 This Week’s Movies | April 15, 2016 © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Science   An Aid Program Too Often Neglected. Advertisement When Telma Lopez could earn a modest living cleaning houses, she got along without food stamps. But now that she’s 64, suffers from chronic back pain and relies on Social Security disability benefits, “everything is too much money at the supermarket,” she told me. The Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, as the federal food stamp program is now known, provides her with $189 a month, the maximum benefit for a single-person household. Bernice Warren applied for food stamps in 2010. “My money was short and I had bills to pay, and they really helped out,” recalled Ms. Warren, 82. Her benefit — $121 this month – doesn’t allow for much meat, so she buys canned tuna and, when it’s on sale, chicken. “I make it last,” she said. Diane Gonzalez, who directs a counseling program at the Child Center of New York that helped both women apply for and receive benefits, feels frustrated nonetheless. She knows that other older adults in her Queens neighborhood, unaware of or misinformed about SNAP, are stretching meals or doing without. Why do so few older people take advantage of SNAP? Over all, nearly 80 percent of people eligible for food stamps in 2011 were using them, according to an analysis by Mathematica Policy Research. But among those over 60, the participation rate was about half that, 39 percent. That means more than 5.2 million older people could be eating better.  “Some are too proud about taking ‘handouts’ — that’s the mindset,” Ms. Gonzalez said she had found. It sometimes requires multiple conversations to get her clients past the stigma of dependence. (It may help that SNAP now uses a reloadable plastic card that recipients can swipe like a debit or credit card, instead of the coupons that told everyone in the supermarket line that you were on assistance.) In other cases, “the elderly feel that others, like young children, are more needy,” said Jackie Kauff, a senior researcher at Mathematica. But it’s also true that despite the government’s steps to simplify the process, applying for food stamps can still seem daunting. “It’s very complicated,” Ms. Kauff said. “Lots of seniors find it burdensome.” Hence the push to enlist community organizations to help — like Ms. Gonzalez’s program, Single Stop, where a senior’s application for food stamps can be completed in 20 minutes. Families can step in here, too, especially to apply online for older adults who lack computer skills. For SNAP purposes, seniors are aged 60 or older. They have to report, and document, their net income (after deducting many out-of-pocket medical costs and certain expenses for shelter) and assets (excluding a home, retirement accounts and, in most states, a vehicle). As long as those assets don’t top $3,250, applicants at the federal poverty level ($958 in net monthly income for someone living alone, or $1,293 for a two-person household) will qualify for help. Because household size figures into the calculation, people who live alone or with a spouse may get lower benefits than families. My friend Mara Fitter, who recently moved her 78-year-old father from St. Louis to a suburb near her in Orlando, Fla., reported that the SNAP application wasn’t hard to file online, since her dad had documents handy from filing his income taxes. The results were dispiriting, though. Mr. Fitter qualified, but only for the minimum benefit: $15 a month. “Better than zero,” Ms. Fitter said, noting it might buy him a carton of Ensure. The average benefit for someone over age 60 who lives alone is $119 a month, and $176 for a two-person household, a Mathematica senior researcher, Karen Cunnyngham, has calculated. We can argue whether those are adequate amounts for even careful shoppers trying to feed themselves. We can debate whether Congress should have reduced the benefit in November to help balance the federal budget. Ms. Lopez, whose monthly food stamp allotment fell to $189, from $200, said she ran out of food by the fourth week of the month and had to go to a food pantry for rice and milk. But we can probably agree that for economically marginal seniors, SNAP’s average monthly benefit is too much to walk away from. The Agriculture Department, which oversees SNAP, explains food stamp eligibility and benefits on its website. You can find numbers to call for information in each state here. And the National Council on Aging’s BenefitsCheckUp can help you determine whether a family member qualifies not only for food stamps but also for other forms of state and federal aid. Paula Span is the author of “When the Time Comes: Families With Aging Parents Share Their Struggles and Solutions.” The blog is ending, but our coverage of caregiving and aging is not. The New Old Age will run as a twice-monthly column by Paula Span on nytimes.com and frequently in Science Times. Read more… At many nursing homes and assisted living places, a resident’s passing may be hardly noted.Read more… Circumstances had changed, and all these documents needed to change, too. Read more… Lifestyle modification prevents Type 2 diabetes even more effectively in the elderly than in middle-aged patients.Read more… Julianne Moore gives a wonderful performance in “Still Alice,” but the film skirts the truth about dementia.Read more… Thanks to the marvels of medical science, our parents are living longer than ever before. Most will spend years dependent on others for the most basic needs. That burden falls to their baby boomer children. The New Old Age blog explored this unprecedented intergenerational challenge. Paula Span will continue to write New Old Age columns twice monthly at nytimes.com/health and the conversation will continue on Twitter (@paula_span) and Facebook. A few medical institutions have opened their doors to patients’ own dogs and cats. Scheduling and medication errors plague patients with Parkinson's. Dementia doesn't respect public stature. Is there life after caregiving, and if so what it is like? Comprehensive reference and special reports about diseases, conditions, tests, injuries and surgeries. Useful information, tools, and links to organizations around the Web. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   Tourney Returns to Garden, but 1961 Won’t Be Back. Advertisement Advertisement By LYNN ZINSERMARCH 28, 2014 As you will be continually reminded if you watch the N.C.A.A. men’s basketball tournament at Madison Square Garden over the next few days, the tournament has not tickled the Garden’s nets since 1961. Yes, that’s a gap of 52 years — long enough that the Garden wasn’t even the same Garden. That Garden was on Eighth Avenue between 49th and 50th Streets — until they knocked it down in 1968 and put the new squatting over Penn Station. Whatever the reason for the absence — and most point to the point-shaving scandal involving New York teams in the 1950s that drove the N.C.A.A. away — the men’s tournament’s last games in Manhattan were a really long time ago. Just how long ago was that in sports time? Eons. Consider that in 1961 there was not yet something called the Super Bowl. The Green Bay Packers won what was called the N.F.L. Championship over the Giants, 37-0. Roger Maris was busy hitting a Major League Baseball-record 61 home runs. After the 1961 season, the Yankees signed Mickey Mantle to a contract for over $80,000 a year. Ernie Banks ended his streak of consecutive games played at 717, and Warren Spahn threw a no-hitter at age 40. Advertisement Sprinter Wilma Rudolph set a world record in the 100 meters, won the Sullivan Award as the nation’s top amateur athlete and got a presidential visit out of it. The president? The recently inaugurated John F. Kennedy. The tennis player Roy Emerson won the United States national championships, now the U.S. Open, beating his better-known Australian countryman Rod Laver, which did not keep Australia from later naming the Australian Open stadium after Laver. Gary Player of South Africa became the first non-American to win the Masters. And the PGA Tour finally dropped its Caucasians-only rule, allowing Charlie Sifford to be a member of the tour. Jack Nicklaus won the United States Amateur. Wilt Chamberlain warmed up for his 100-point game in 1962 by scoring 78, 67 and 78 points in consecutive games for the Philadelphia Warriors in December. The Chicago Blackhawks won their first Stanley Cup in 23 years by beating Detroit, giving the stars Bobby Hull and Stan Mikita their only Cup. This was even more unlikely considering the N.H.L. had only six teams. (Chicago’s poor fortunes extended past the Original Six era: The Blackhawks did not win another Cup until 2010.) The saddest sports news of the year came on Feb. 15 when a plane carrying the United States figure skating team to the world championships in Prague, Czechoslovakia, crashed in Belgium, killing all 18 team members and coaches on board. Lost were three members of one of skating’s top families: the 18-year-old national women’s champion Laurence Owen; her sister Maribel Owen, the pairs champion; and their mother, Coach Maribel Vinson-Owen, a bronze medalist in the 1932 Olympics. And an otherwise largely forgettable set of N.C.A.A. tournament first-round games were played at the Garden, with Princeton beating George Washington, 84-67; St. Bonaventure beating Rhode Island, 86-76; and Wake Forest beating St. John’s, 97-74. Now that the 52-year drought is over, those games can be forgotten anew. Go to Home Page »
Travel   A Free Ride for Hotel Guests on Branded Bikes. Advertisement Hotels offering bikes to their guests as a way to see the local sights isn’t new, but some are now taking the concept to another level with souped-up versions of standard two-wheelers. At 45 Park Lane in London, for example, guests have access to Brompton bicycles in the hotel’s signature purple color. Le Meurice in Paris has pistachio-green bicycles with green baskets and gold bike locks. The Gramercy Park Hotel in New York recently introduced Lorenzo Martone-designed bikes that are all white with bright red chains and “GPH” license plates. Chebeague Island Inn on Chebeague Island, Me., has L. L. Bean-designed bikes, and Montage Kapalua Bay, opening this spring on Maui, will have Panama Jack bikes in different styles and colors — each one will also have touches like bottle openers. Besides their good looks, the best part about these bikes might be that using them is free. Misty Ewing Belles, director of public relations for Virtuoso, the luxury travel network, says that upscale properties are putting effort into how their bikes look because of the growing popularity of biking and as a way to extend their brand. “With bike shares taking off in cities, there is a desire to be more mobile in that way,” she said. “Luxury hotels are recognizing this and are offering it as an attractive amenity for their guests.” A version of this article appears in print on 03/30/2014, on page TR3 of the NewYork edition with the headline: A Free Ride for Hotel Guests on Branded Bikes. In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
U.S.   A Week in Search and Rescue. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Weather A Week in Search and Rescue By Quynhanh Do | Mar. 29, 2014 | 2:25 A look back at the week of search and rescue efforts after a deadly landslide buried the town of Oso, Wash. Related: article: Anxious Wait for News Days After Deadly Landslide Show More PlaylistUp Next in Weather ← PreviousNext →   Extreme Weather0:33 Flooding Continues in India and Pakistan   Extreme Weather0:23 Storm Triggers Flash Floods in Arizona   Extreme Weather1:26 Quake Rattles San Francisco Bay Area   Extreme Weather0:40 Strong Winds Ahead of Hurricane Iselle   Extreme Weather1:16 Twin Tornadoes Touch Down in Nebraska   Extreme Weather1:26 Voices From Serbian Flooding   Extreme Weather5:35 Last Minutes on Everest   Extreme Weather1:18 Surviving the Mount Everest Avalanche   Extreme Weather1:20 Sherpa’s Family on Avalanche   Caught on Camera0:45 Security Camera Footage of Chilean Quake   Now Playing Extreme Weather2:25 A Week in Search and Rescue   Extreme Weather0:57 Mudslide Rescue Caught on Video   Extreme Weather2:15 The School Snow Run   Extreme Weather1:40 A Timelapse of Snow Covering Washington   Extreme Weather0:52 Los Angeles Wildfire   Extreme Weather1:16 Let It Snow   International2:04 Typhoon Haiyan’s Epicenter   Extreme Weather0:58 Deadly Tornadoes Rip Through Midwest   Europe1:06 Strong Winds Across Europe   Extreme Weather1:00 Scenes From a Wildfire Near Yosemite   U.S.0:55 Raw Footage: Flooding in the Midwest © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Arts   Video Notebook: Bert Miranda. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Video Video Notebook: Bert Miranda By Patrick Healy | Mar. 30, 2014 | 0:46 Bert Miranda had always wanted to see a Broadway show, but found that “Rocky” was easier to relate to than some other productions. Related: article: In Audiences on Broadway, Fewer Guys Among the Dolls Show More PlaylistUp Next in Video Next → Op-Docs: Season 5 9:23 I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked   Video1:08 Hitting all the Right Notes Op-Docs: Season 5 13:33 Manufacturing China’s Future Op-Docs: Season 5 6:05 Fashion vs. Art   Video0:56 Excerpt: ‘The Father’   Video0:33 Excerpt: ‘Exit Strategy’ Op-Docs: Season 5 7:19 A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race   Video1:58 Excerpt: ‘Antlia Pneumatica’   News Clips: Europe1:20 Officials React to Panama Papers   News Clips: Europe3:47 Mossack Fonseca on Data Leak © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Business   Court Halts Sale of BlackBerry-Style Keyboard for iPhone. Advertisement   On Friday, the United States District Court for the Northern District of California issued a preliminary injunction banning importation, sale and marketing of the case made by Typo Products, a company co-founded by Ryan Seacrest, the host of “American Idol.” Judge William H. Orrick found that BlackBerry is likely to be successful with its copyright claims against Typo, which introduced its phone case in January. “While we are flattered by the desire to graft our keyboard onto other smartphones, we will not tolerate the deliberate use of our iconic design without proper permission,” BlackBerry said in an email sent late on Friday. “We are proud of our keyboard and will vigorously protect our intellectual property.” The court order will only take effect after BlackBerry posts a bond covering any damages Typo could be awarded if further court action overturns the ban. In a decision laden with elaborate descriptions of keyboard minutiae, Judge Orrick rejected many of Typo’s legal arguments. They included a claim that Typo can’t harm BlackBerry’s business because the Canadian smartphone maker is in such poor shape that it “has limited goodwill to lose.” On Friday, BlackBerry announced that it lost $5.9 billion during its last fiscal year. The $99 case has not been well received by many reviewers. And despite its celebrity connection, which proved useful for generating publicity, the device does not appear to be overwhelmingly successful. The court ruling indicates that only 4,000 have been produced since January. In a statement issued Friday, Typo said: “We’re disappointed with the court’s decision today, but we plan to appeal it. Typo will continue to make and sell innovative products that busy people can’t live without.” . Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   1918: Germany Takes Control of Crimea. Advertisement The enemy was violently shaken by an enveloping manoeuvre by the Germans. BALE — The special correspondent of the “Münchner Neueste Nachrichten” telegraphs from Sebastopol on May 10. By engagements and long marches the German troops have succeeded in occupying the Crimea in thirteen days. On April 21 Simferopol was reached.  During the following six days the enemy counter-attacked violently around the town. While a part of our troops prepared to attack Sebastopol, the other part was engaged in heavy fighting for the line toward Theodosia. On the 25th the enemy was violently shaken by an enveloping manoeuvre by the Germans. While these operations were in progress, three groups of infantry flanked by cavalry and artillery marched on SebastopoI. It was a forced march behind an enemy in flight, but one which called for a great effort by the troops. We entered Sebastopol without fighting.  White flags and the Ukrainian colors floated from the houses. The Black Sea fleet also flew these flags but they had to change them for the German colors. Almost the whole of the Black Sea fleet and important stores are comprised in the booty. Since May 1 the German flag flies over the town and fortress. At the same time came the news that the troops operating in the east of the peninsula, after the occupation of Theodosia on April 30, had immediately resumed their march on Kertach, on the Sea of Azov, which was occupied shortly after. — Havas, in the New York Herald, European Edition, on May, 18, 1918.  This blog will share highlights and curiosities from The International Herald Tribune's storied reportage. While we will share coverage of historic events — the world wars, the women's suffrage movement, the great expeditions — we will also republish glimpses of less earth-shaking moments and the ephemera of daily life. The same stories that caught the eyes of our generations of editors now offer us insight into the lives and interests of generations of Trib readers. Read more » From the International Herald Tribune archives: The Vichy government limits menus in 1941.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: A Nigerian officer at war sends a dispatch in 1916. Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: Germany establishes a naval repair shop 500 miles from South America in 1941.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: Prince Victor Napoleon gives a treatise on French politics in 1891.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: British troops attack Irak forces in 1941.Read more… Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   Knicks Are Dealt a Rout by the Suns and a Blow to Their Playoff Hopes. Advertisement Advertisement By SCOTT CACCIOLAMARCH 29, 2014 PHOENIX — With the Knicks engaged in a playoff chase that has become one of the N.B.A.’s more captivating sitcoms, Coach Mike Woodson needed two sentences to sum up the season before the Phoenix Suns demolished his team Friday night at US Airways Center. “Every game is tough for us,” Woodson said. “It doesn’t matter who we play.” The Boston Celtics? Tough. The Milwaukee Bucks? Tough. The Orlando Magic? So tough. It might be worth noting that all three teams are bound for the draft lottery, yet they all own victories over the Knicks, who have been charitable to the league’s underclass for nearly five months now. The Suns are different, though. They are legitimately tough. They pull up for transition 3-pointers. They rebound and defend. They have fans who come out of the stands to drill halfcourt shots for $77,777, which was the case during a timeout promotion in the second quarter Friday. That the Suns entered the game in a playoff chase of their own only heightened their sense of urgency. It turned into a big mess for the Knicks, who were dealt a 112-88 loss and another severe blow as they try to finagle their way into the postseason. The Knicks (30-43) could have pulled within a game of the Atlanta Hawks for the final playoff spot in the Eastern Conference. Instead, the Knicks slipped to two games back — and their coming schedule, which includes a game at the Golden State Warriors on Sunday, is less than favorable. Eight of the Knicks’ nine remaining games are against teams bound for the playoffs. The Hawks, on the other hand, have a much softer slate of opponents: Of their 11 remaining games, six are against teams with losing records, including the Philadelphia 76ers, who have lost 26 straight, and the Milwaukee Bucks, whose season has somehow been even worse. Of course, the Hawks have lost 19 of their last 25 games, so nothing is assured. They seem oddly determined to give the Knicks every opportunity to make the playoffs, if only the Knicks could help themselves. “They beat us in all aspects tonight,” said Carmelo Anthony, who rattled through a list that included defense, the transition game, offensive rebounds and what he called “the hustle game.” The Knicks were just not prepared, he said. Given the dire circumstances, Woodson said the performance was especially disheartening. He said he had cautioned his team against being sucked into an up-tempo affair with the Suns, who love to run out on the fast break. Based on appearances, Woodson’s players ignored him. The Suns’ lead reached 32 points. Advertisement “We came out, and it was like a back-and-forth shooting match,” Woodson said. “We got into a situation where we made one pass and the shot was up. We never had good floor balance.” The game also highlighted the disparity between the league’s two conferences. The Suns (44-29) entered Friday with a half-game lead over Dallas for the final playoff spot in the West. They would be the third seed in the East. Anthony, who twisted his right ankle in Wednesday’s win over the Sacramento Kings, started against the Suns and supplied 40 minutes. He sat for two minutes of the first half and for the final six minutes of the second half, with the Suns way out in front. He scored 21 points and shot 8 of 20 from the field. He appeared to be grimacing by the end. “I ain’t got no choice,” Anthony said of playing big minutes. “You ain’t going to hear no complaints from me. I’ve got to give it my all right now.” A major problem for the Knicks was their defense. To be specific, they did not play much of it. This was more than vaguely reminiscent of their showing in Tuesday’s 31-point loss to the Los Angeles Lakers, and the Suns, like the Lakers, treated the game like an all-you-can-eat buffet. Whenever they spotted up for 3-pointers, the Suns might as well have been protected by some sort of force field. Opposing players seldom came within five feet of them. They finished 14 of 33 from 3-point range. “We’re playing for something,” Woodson said, “and it’s disappointing because we can’t afford to give games away.” The only damage the Knicks were able to inflict came in the second quarter, when Goran Dragic caught an inadvertent elbow from Tyson Chandler. The injury required five stitches above his left eye. Dragic, who finished with 32 points, returned at the start of the third quarter, and the Suns’ lead continued to expand. The Knicks ran the floor as if their sneakers were waterlogged. Advertisement “There’s no more talking right now,” Anthony said. “You just got to go out there and play ball. There’s no talking. Either we want it, or we don’t. There’s no more talking.” Go to Home Page »
Business   Michael Lewis Views Market as ‘Rigged’ in Favor of High-Speed Traders. Advertisement  Updated, 7:07 a.m. | The author Michael Lewis, who has written in previous books about everything from subprime mortgage securities to the Oakland As, is now taking aim at a dominant force in the stock market: High-frequency trading. Mr. Lewis, whose new book, “Flash Boys,” is scheduled to be released on Monday, appeared on “60 Minutes” on Sunday evening to argue that high-speed trading has ripped off investors not in possession of lightning-fast computers and special cables. “The United States stock market, the most iconic market in global capitalism, is rigged,” Mr. Lewis told Steve Kroft on the CBS News program. “If it wasn’t complicated, it wouldn’t be allowed to happen,” he went on. “The complexity disguises what is happening. If it’s so complicated you can’t understand it, then you can’t question it.” The book is sure to generate attention on Wall Street. Mr. Lewis, the author of popular books like “Liar’s Poker,” “The Big Short” and “The Blind Side,” argued on the “60 Minutes” segment that high-frequency traders are able to “front-run” other investors, by quickly spotting orders and positioning themselves to take advantage of them. This computerized trading, which is estimated to account for half the shares traded in the United States, has already drawn scrutiny from the New York attorney general, Eric T. Schneiderman, who has publicly criticized certain advantages that the traders enjoy. Earlier this month, Mr. Schneiderman called on stock exchanges to curb certain services for high-frequency traders, including the ability to put their computer servers within the exchanges’ data centers. Defenders of high-frequency trading say that the practice makes trading easier and cheaper for investors of all kinds. The rise of new trading technology, combined with new regulations, helped erode the old model of specialists who would collect spreads of as much as 12.5 cents a share to ensure the smooth functioning of the market. Mr. Lewis, in his new book, follows the story of Brad Katsuyama, a former trader at the Royal Bank of Canada who helped create a system to slow down customers’ orders to stymie high-frequency traders. The technology sought to ensure that orders reach all exchanges at the same moment, Nathaniel Popper wrote in DealBook last year. An excerpt of the book, published Monday in The New York Times magazine, also outlines how Mr. Katsuyama stumbled across the problems with high-frequency trading. Now, Mr. Katsuyama runs a new trading platform called IEX, which is designed to be inhospitable to “predatory” high-frequency traders. The “60 Minutes” segment did not include any interviews with high-frequency trading firms, but did present Mr. Katsuyama as the hero who conquered high-speed traders. One investor in the company is the hedge fund manager David Einhorn. “I think it’s going to succeed in a very big way,” Mr. Einhorn said on the program. Mr. Katsuyama, a young Canadian who formerly made millions as a trader, might seem an unlikely hero in this story, Mr. Lewis said. “Why is this kid, why is he able to all of a sudden sit at the center of the American stock market?” Mr. Lewis said. “And the answer is, when someone walks in the door who is actually trustworthy, he has enormous power. And this is the story of trying to restore trust to the financial markets.” Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   Large Crowds Fill Taipei Streets in Protest Over China Trade Bill. Advertisement More than 100,000 demonstrators took to the streets of Taipei on Sunday to protest efforts by the government to approve a trade pact with China and to show support for the students who have occupied Taiwan’s Legislature for nearly two weeks. Organizers estimated that the crowd had swelled to more than 500,000 people on the streets around the Presidential Office Building by early afternoon. The police counted 116,000 demonstrators by 4 p.m., according to Taiwan’s Central News Agency, while some television news stations put the number as high as 700,000. The trade pact would open up dozens of service sectors in Taiwan and China to cross-strait investment. The protesters fear that local businesses will suffer, and that Taiwan will fall further under the influence of China, which considers Taiwan, a self-governed island, part of its territory. They have accused President Ma Ying-jeou and his allies in the governing party, the Kuomintang, of forcing through the trade measure without allowing a review of its details. On March 18, hundreds of protesters, mostly college students, stormed the Legislature chamber. They have remained inside, with crowds of supporters filling the streets outside. Though many demonstrators are opposed to the service trade pact, the most widely held complaint is that the measure has not been sufficiently examined. A telephone poll of 1,007 Taiwanese over the age of 20 conducted by Taiwan Indicators Survey Research before the occupation of the Legislature found that more than 70 percent of the respondents supported a line-by-line review of the pact. “The level of public trust with President Ma and his government is really low throughout the country, and the review of this pact has been very cursory,” said Wu Hsiang-min, a 30-year-old engineer who joined the black-clad protesters on Sunday in central Taipei. “So I felt that if the students were willing to stand up on this matter, then I should stand up, too.” On Saturday, Mr. Ma tried to respond to some of the students’ demands, saying he would back an itemized review of the trade pact and a law that would allow the Legislature to monitor agreements with Beijing more closely. Mr. Ma said he was opposed to demands for the withdrawal of the pact, which was signed by quasi-governmental organizations representing Taiwan and China last year but still needs legislative approval. The president has said that the deal is necessary for Taiwan’s economy to maintain its competitiveness with regional rivals like South Korea, and that failure to approve it could harm Taiwan’s ability to enter into other trade agreements. Mr. Ma’s Kuomintang controls the Legislature, with 65 of 113 seats, so it can eventually win approval of the measure. Protesters had called for Mr. Ma, as the party’s chairman, to relax rules that enforce discipline on votes by its members in the expectation that some Kuomintang legislators might oppose aspects of the pact. Mr. Ma said Saturday that such decisions were made by the party’s legislative caucus and were not directly under his control. On Saturday, a much smaller demonstration of a few thousand people gathered outside Taipei’s central train station to show support for Mr. Ma’s government. “I want the students to leave the Legislature,” said Chang Wei-feng, 24, from Taichung in central Taiwan. “You can’t use this sort of occupation in the middle of a democratic process.” A version of this article appears in print on 03/31/2014, on page A3 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Taiwanese Rally in Opposition to China Trade Pact. Sinosphere, the China blog of The New York Times, delivers intimate, authoritative coverage of the planet's most populous nation and its relationship with the rest of the world. Drawing on timely, engaging dispatches from The Times’ distinguished team of China correspondents, this blog brings readers into the debates and discussions taking place inside a fast-changing country and details the cultural, economic and political developments shaping the lives of 1.3 billion people. Some called on the government to send troops to the Middle East in retaliation to an Islamic State killing, while others cautioned that such a move could invite terrorism at home.Read more… The dissidents had won official recognition as refugees and had been previously detained in China for their activism, Chris Buckley reports.Read more… Human rights advocates listened with a mixture of incredulity and derision to the delegation’s responses on interrogation, Nick Cumming-Bruce reports. Read more… In the Philippines for an Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit, President Obama urged China to halt military activities on the disputed islands, Michael D. Shear reports. Read more… The dead, including women and children, were said to have been involved in a knife attack in September that left 50 people dead at a mine near the Kyrgyzstan border, Javier C. Hernández reports. Read more… Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Society   Twice Bitten, Still Smitten. Advertisement Advertisement By VINCENT M. MALLOZZIMARCH 30, 2014 Kathleen Faye Donovan, the daughter of Carol Crabtree Donovan and Daniel P. Donovan of Dallas, was married Saturday evening to Kenneth George Alfred Coffin, a son of Joann M. Coffin and Kenneth J. Coffin of Bulls Head, Staten Island. The Rev. John Libone, a Roman Catholic priest, performed the ceremony at St. Thomas Aquinas Catholic Church in Dallas. The couple, both 28, met at the University of Notre Dame, from which they received law degrees, she cum laude and he magna cum laude. The bride, who is taking her husband’s name, works in Addison, Tex., as a litigation associate at Geary, Porter & Donovan, a law firm in which her father is a partner. She graduated magna cum laude from the University of Texas. Her mother is a lawyer and a mediator in Dallas. The groom is a litigation associate in the Dallas office of the Chicago law firm Sidley Austin. He graduated from the College of William & Mary. His mother is a vice president for administration with the Mount Sinai Beth Israel Health System in Manhattan. His father is a claims manager in Manhattan for Zurich North America Insurance. The couple met before the start of their first law-school class at Notre Dame in August 2007 and became fast friends. Advertisement “Kathleen was beautiful, articulate, worldly and intelligent, easily one of the most impressive people I had ever met,” he said. “I made it my goal to spend as much time with her as possible.” Their friendship had grown considerably by the start of their second semester, so they decided to try dating. “He is very funny and witty and brilliant,” she said. “He’s a great person to bounce ideas off of.” Their first date, at a fast-food restaurant in South Bend, Ind., in January 2008, didn’t end very well: He had forgotten his wallet. “He was mortified, but I thought it was hilarious — that had never happened to me on a date before,” she said. “While he’s one of the smartest people I ever met, he’s also one of the most forgetful.” Their second date, a few weeks later at a restaurant in South Bend, ended on a familiar sour note. He forgot his wallet again. “It wasn’t quite as entertaining the second time,” she said. “At that point, we were still testing the dating waters, so no matter what, we were going to stay friends anyway.” While he was thinking he might be demoted from boyfriend to buddy (“Our relationship almost never got off the ground,” he said), the two gave dating another try. In March 2008, they set up a third date, this time in New York. They spent a day wandering through Central Park and the Metropolitan Museum of Art. After dinner at a Manhattan restaurant (“Yes, he remembered his wallet this time,” she said), they headed to Lincoln Center. “We just had a wonderful time,” she said. “After that trip, we were both a lot more certain about the direction in which our relationship was heading.” Advertisement VINCENT M. MALLOZZI A version of this article appears in print on March 30, 2014, on page ST21 of the New York edition with the headline: Twice Bitten, Still Smitten. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Sports   Highlights and Analysis: Mets Fall on Baseball’s First Afternoon. Advertisement Times reporters and editors shared their insights and analysis on the coming year and kept tabs on the first full slate of games of 2014, including the Mets and the Nationals at Citi Field. After six weeks of spring training and self-evaluation, the Mets were, they admitted, a flawed team, but a win on opening day would do something for their confidence. They were talking about winning 90 games. A win on the first day would be a start. The powerful Washington Nationals, the trendy pick to win the World Series, were in town. Dillon Gee matched Stephen Strasburg. Andrew Brown and Juan Lagares homered. But the bullpen squandered leads in the seventh inning and again in the ninth. Jeurys Familia, the sixth pitcher the Mets used, came on in the 10th. Jayson Werth hit a soft pop-up that landed safely among three defenders, Jose Lobaton singled, and the two of them advanced to second and third on a passed ball. Two batters later, Werth scored on a sacrifice fly. John Lannan, the Mets’ seventh pitcher, came on and served up a three-run home run to Anthony Rendon. Fans filed for the exits and missed David Wright’s two-run home run in the bottom of the 10th. Curtis Granderson struck out for the third time Monday to end the game, and the Mets’ season started with a 9-7 loss. — TIM ROHAN Tonight’s highlight reel is filling up with some top-rate clips. Neil Walker’s solo home run in the bottom of the 10th inning gave the Pirates a walk-off victory over the Cubs in game 1 of 162. The weakness of the Mets’ bullpen is on full display today at Citi Field. There were questions heading into the opener about whether Parnell, the team’s closer who blew the save in the ninth, would be ready for the start of the season. He was still building up his velocity after having neck surgery last year as spring training came to a close. There is not much depth behind Parnell, either, and outside of Valverde today, it’s been tough to watch. Jeurys Familia allowed a couple hits before yielding the go-ahead run on a sac fly. Shortly after, Rendon hit a three-run bomb off of John Lannan to seemingly put this one out of reach. It’s 9-5, Nationals lead, in the bottom of the 10th inning. Fans streaming up the aisles after three-run homer by Anthony Rendon makes it 9-5 — Jim Luttrell (@jimluttrell) 31 Mar 14 One of the Tigers’ off-season acquisitions, Alex Gonzalez, drove in the winning run with a single in the ninth inning that gave the Tigers a 4-3 victory over the Royals. After months of anticipation, baseball on Monday had its first regular-season use of the new replay review system. In a quiet and efficient start to the system, the call on the field of a game between the Chicago Cubs and the Pittsburgh Pirates was upheld, and the process took less than two minutes. Cubs Manager Rick Renteria became a trivia question when he jogged onto the field to challenge a call at first base on a double play in the top of the fifth inning with the score, 0-0. Jeff Samardzija, the Cubs’ starting pitcher, bunted to the opposing pitcher, who threw to third base for a forceout. Pirates third baseman Pedro Alvarez then threw across the diamond, narrowly beating Samardzija, who signaled himself safe as he crossed the bag. The first-base umpire, Bob Davidson, disagreed with Samardzija, calling him out, and Renteria emerged from the dugout to issue the challenge. As will be standard in the new system, John Hirschbeck, the home plate umpire, then jogged to the backstop, where he put on a headset with the replay crew in New York. The interaction with the replay office was well within the estimated time of 90 seconds, and, including the time it took for Renteria to issue the challenge, the interaction was well under two minutes. Most important, the correct call appeared to be upheld with no argument from either side. — BENJAMIN HOFFMAN Is it already time for Plan B, or Plan C, or maybe Plan D for the Mets? It’s too early to panic, Mets fans, but it’s not to early to be frustrated. Parnell gave up a lead-off single but appeared to be in control after inducing a pop out and striking out Rendon. But another walk kept the inning alive and a double by Denard Span brought in the tying run. It’s 5-5 in the bottom of the ninth. Bobby Parnell enters 2014 as the Mets’ closer. He’s in the game, hoping to secure the team’s first victory of the season. The Mets are holding on to a 5-4 lead. Finding a reliable game finisher can be such a hit-or-miss struggle that some teams are opting to limit their investment in the effort. This topic was investigated in detail in a recent article by Tyler Kepner.  Alderson wanted the kid to hit more. Juan Lagares launched a solo shot over the left-center-field wall to give the Mets a 5-4 lead. The former Mets ace R.A. Dickey is nearing his first pitch of 2014. The Tampa Bay Rays are hosting the Toronto Blue Jays at 4:10 p.m., Eastern time. Starting his second year of a three-year, $30 million contract, which he signed after winning the Cy Young Award with the Mets, Dickey is looking to rebound from a disappointing season. He was 14-13 with a 4.21 earned run average for the last-place Blue Jays in 2013. “I had a very average season, considering what I feel like I’m capable of doing, and I think they thought they were going to get something much more,” Dickey said. “It’s hard to feel like you weren’t worth it. If I didn’t win the Cy Young the year before, it would have been a very good season for me. But I came off a Cy Young season, and that’s what people expect.” Kepner is picking the Blue Jays to finish in last place once again in 2014. Meanwhile, at Citi Field: Valverde flies through eighth with 3rd K, then dances, jumps, sprints to the dugout. Only sign of life from Mets since 3rd. — Jim Luttrell (@jimluttrell) 31 Mar 14 Carlos Torres and Scott Rice threw eight straight balls in relief of Gee before a third reliever, Jose Valverde, got the Mets out of the inning. And things were going so well for the Mets in 2014. … Two Mets relievers, two batters, eight balls, no strikes, run scored, blown save. — Jim Luttrell (@jimluttrell) 31 Mar 14 Just like that, Gee is out of this game. After striking out Wilson Ramos to start the inning, the Nationals scratched out a run. A single and walk preceded a double by Anthony Rendon, which drove in Ian Desmond. The bases are now loaded for the Nationals with two outs in the top of the seventh. Your 2014 @RedSox! http://t.co/G6OjrrDNFN — Boston Red Sox (@RedSox) 31 Mar 14 Gee, who is 33-26 in 81 career starts, is pitching the way an opening-day starter is supposed to. He has five strikeouts and has yielded two hits with one out in the seventh. His only mistake was a two-run homer to Adam LaRoche, and that has kept the Nationals in the game. But he is in control with the Mets leading, 4-2. I see the Phillies erupted for six runs in the second inning off Texas Rangers starter Tanner Scheppers, who is making his first major league start. The last pitcher to make his first career start on opening day was Fernando Valenzuela for the Dodgers in 1981. Fernando threw a five-hit shutout against the Astros. — TYLER KEPNER Speaking of long-suffering baseball teams, the Chicago Cubs are in action this afternoon as well, visiting the Pittsburgh Pirates. The game is scoreless in the fifth inning. Unlike the Royals, who now lead the Tigers, 3-1, in the fifth inning, and the Pirates, the Cubs are not built to win in 2014. The Cubs are building for the future, and the goal is “to flood the organization with talent, however possible,” writes Kepner. The Cubs spent more than $8 million on international amateurs and moved aggressively to trade veterans for prospects in 2013. More patience will be required by fans who just experienced the worst two-year stretch in franchise history, with 197 losses in General Manager Theo Epstein’s first two seasons in charge. There’s been plenty of action at Citi Field through three innings, not to mention two Granderson strikeouts. The Nationals got back in the game quickly with a two-run home run by Adam LaRoche in the top of the second inning, but the Mets tacked on one more with a sacrifice fly by Eric Young Jr. in the bottom half. Young has been competing with Juan Lagares for a starting outfield spot, but both are in the lineup today. Daniel Murphy was scratched from today’s opener as he and his wife are expecting a child, so Young got the start at second. Young was a bright spot on the Mets last season, but he was unable to secure a starting center field spot this spring. The Young-Lagares completion is likely to continue throughout the early part of the season. “He’s our best outfielder; he’s our best center fielder,” General Manager Sandy Alderson said of Lagares. “But he’s going to have to hit a little bit, too. So if he were to start in center field on opening day, we’d have to see over a period of time — how long, how short, I don’t know — that he can carry the offensive side of the game as well.” There has not been this much optimism surrounding the Kansas City Royals in a long time. For the first time in decades, the Royals, who endured 17 of 18 losing seasons before last season, begin 2014 with a realistic chance at the postseason, and all the pressure that comes with it. Kepner writes: Norichika Aoki and Omar Infante to address their on-base issues at the top of the lineup. They replaced one veteran starting pitcher, Ervin Santana, with another, Jason Vargas. They expect several impact players to improve, given their ages and career trajectories. And if it all happens, the Royals just might end one of the more inglorious streaks in professional sports. They have not reached the playoffs since 1985, the longest current drought for any team in Major League Baseball, the N.F.L., the N.B.A. or the N.H.L. The Royals are opening their season in Detroit. The Tigers have a 1-0 lead in the third inning thanks to a Victor Martinez solo home run.  With two on and one out, Curtis Granderson was given an early opportunity to make a splash with his new team. Instead, he did what he often did with the Yankees when he wasn’t hitting home runs: He struck out. But that left the door open for Andrew Brown, who launched a three-run homer to give the Mets an early 3-0 lead. Brown played in just 24 games for the Mets in 2013 after signing a minor league deal in May. Today, he is batting fifth in the Mets’ batting order, and doing all he can to stay there. The season starts in very Mets-ian fashion: The start of the Mets’ season was briefly delayed because there was no first baseman on the field. Can’t make this stuff up. — Tyler Kepner (@TylerKepner) 31 Mar 14 Eventually, Ike Davis was found and the game started. Ryan Zimmerman singled with one out but no damage was done. We’re also getting reports of many empty seats at Citi Field. Ken Belson speculates that once the line at Shake Shack recedes, we could see the seats fill up. There was also a nice tribute to the late Ralph Kiner before the game, which included a moment of silence. The Hall of Fame player who became a longtime voice of the Mets died in February at 91. And so it begins. #openingday http://t.co/ZcUFreVPMk — Jim Luttrell (@jimluttrell) 31 Mar 14 If you’re in that Mets opening day mood — and we know you are — enjoy this fun quiz from the geniuses at Sporcle. — TYLER KEPNER Washington reliever Drew Storen, 26, said he could rarely read the autographs he collected growing up. Now his signature looks more like a butterfly than a name. “I put my number on it, usually, but I think of it as a design,” Storen said. “I challenge people to try to do it, to see if they can, but it’s just autopilot for me, like, ‘Boom.’ It looks cool. It’s like your own little logo, because most of the time you’re signing a card, so they know who it’s supposed to be.” Read the full article here. — TYLER KEPNER The sun is out! The baseball gods have smiled kindly on Queens as we near the first pitch of the Mets’ season. Matt Harvey vs. Stephen Strasburg. That would have been some way to kick off the 2014 season, but they do not make young aces the way they used to. Strasburg, the Nationals’ ace, is pitching today, but his young career has been slowed by arm trouble, which included a torn elbow ligament in 2011 that required Tommy John surgery. Harvey is recovering from the same surgery and hopes to be back on the mound for the Mets in August, but he could miss all of 2014. The man who pioneered the now common surgery, Dr. Frank Jobe, died this year. It was a good time to look at the evolution of the procedure, which Mike Tierney did for us in a recent article. In short, recovery time has improved greatly since the surgery was first being performed. That’s the good news. The bad news is that as athletes continue to get bigger and stronger, the need for Tommy John surgery is only likely to increase. Harvey is the latest young pitching star to require the surgery and is just one of many question marks on the Mets. “No one on the roster is a safe bet except maybe David Wright,” writes Tim Rohan, who detailed the team’s many holes in a recent article. The fans booed Ruben Tejada during pregame introductions — Tim Rohan (@TimRohan) 31 Mar 14 Let’s play a game while we’re waiting for baseball to begin. Take a look at the autographed baseball on the right. Can you guess what player signed it? It’s not easy these days to recognize the signatures of many current players, a stark contrast to the baseball autographs of old, when players like Harmon Killebrew took great care when signing a photograph or baseball. “A recognizable signature, let alone an artful one, now seems as quaint as a Sunday doubleheader,” writes Tyler Kepner, who investigated this phenomenon in a recent article. Go ahead, guess who signed that ball. Hint: He’s playing in today’s game at Citi Field; reading Kepner’s article may help. I’ll give you about 15 minutes. While the Mets are full of question marks, the Nationals are favored by many to win the National League East, if not more. Tyler Kepner has them advancing to the National League Championship Series. The Nationals’ starting pitching will give them an advantage over the Atlanta Braves, the Mets and other teams in the division. Kepner writes: The Nationals’ top three starters, Stephen Strasburg, Jordan Zimmermann and Gio Gonzalez, give them an edge on the Atlanta Braves, who had such unrest in their rotation that they signed Aaron Harang, released by Cleveland, as their No. 4 starter. Kris Medlen and Brandon Beachy are out after Tommy John surgery, and Mike Minor, Ervin Santana and Gavin Floyd are not ready to start the season. Strasburg is starting today for the Nationals against Dillon Gee of the Mets. Did You Know: Matt Williams, the new Nationals manager, has family ties to the last Washington baseball championship. His grandfather, Bert Griffith, played for the last Washington team to win the World Series in 1924. Anyone who woke up this morning in the five boroughs might have doubted that the Mets’ opener with the Washington Nationals at Citi Field would take place. But the rain has stopped and the sun is expected to be shining by midafternoon, but winds around 20 miles per hour could make for some adventures in the outfield. Among the new faces on the Mets’ roster are the former Yankees Curtis Granderson and Bartolo Colon. But the moves fell short of many Mets fans’ expectations. With seats and lineup holes to fill, the Mets continued to practice fiscal restraint after five straight losing seasons, as Ken Belson and Richard Sandomir detailed in a recent article. “When are we going to shake off the Madoff hangover?” one fan said. “I think they are holding off. They have a fiduciary responsibility to spend money. If it’s about the money, sell the team.” The Mets failed to open their wallet despite substantial increases in television revenue, which would seem to have given them more flexibility with their payroll. Maybe many of this year’s top free agents do not fit into the team’s master plan, which could ultimately revolve around pitching. Belson and Sandomir write: If the Mets appear to have a definable strategy, it is to build around pitching. Wilpon and Alderson envision the rise of a young, inexpensive staff that could be a dominant force for years. But for that to happen, Matt Harvey has to make a successful return from Tommy John surgery in 2015; Zack Wheeler has to build on his impressive rookie season; and the very promising minor leaguers Noah Syndergaard and Rafael Montero must show they can excel in the majors. Until then, the mainstays will be the ancient Colon, the young veteran Dillon Gee and the effective, but fragile, Jon Niese. How do Mets fans feel about the current state of the team? Let it all out in our comments section. We’ll have live updates from Citi Field once the game begins, in less than two hours. Sandy Alderson on Mets’ 90-win goal: “We need to turn a corner. It needs to be a 90-degree angle….It’s time for us to get better.” — Tyler Kepner (@TylerKepner) 31 Mar 14 For reasons unknown to me, the Yankees and Astros are playing their first game tomorrow. So, opening day is like five days long now? Anyway. If baseball outside of the Yankees’ universe does not interest you one iota, spend your day with this long read by Barry Bearak, an extensive profile of Masahiro Tanaka, “the Yankees’ $155 million import.” Bearak writes: Tanaka’s success or failure will be among the biggest story lines of the baseball season that begins in earnest Sunday night, but the fuller narrative is about the step-by-step making of a 25-year-old pitcher and the impassioned approach of the Japanese toward America’s national pastime. If the season ended right now, the Los Angeles Dodgers would play the winner of a one-game playoff between the Arizona Diamondbacks and the San Diego Padres in a seven-game series to determine the baseball champions of the world (well, North America, really). Thankfully, for fans outside L.A., 25 other teams start their season today, one of the few days in sports when the fans of every team, somewhere, deep down, thinks their team has a chance to win it all. After outspending the Yankees in the off-season ($235 million team payroll) and finishing last season on a tear (62-28), the Dodgers are legitimate contenders; Tyler Kepner has them winning the National League West. Kepner writes that the team sometimes seems “to exist in the shadow of their combustible right fielder Yasiel Puig, whose talent helps the Dodgers far more than his antics hurt them.” Puig was hitless Sunday night against the Padres while the Dodgers’ bullpen failed to close out a 1-0 lead after seven scoreless innings thrown by Hyun-jin Ryu. This is why we don’t play those games on paper, folks. The first-place Padres meet the Dodgers again on Wednesday night. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Travel   Beer, in the Glass and on the Plate, in Brussels. Advertisement Advertisement By EVAN RAILMARCH 28, 2014 Long before the global explosion of interest in good food and good beer, the traditional recipes of Belgium often included a splash of a great local brew. But despite the country’s long brewing history and rich culinary culture, real beer cooking (la cuisine à la bière) remains something of a rarity, at least in the capital. “There’s very little of the true cuisine à la bière in Brussels,” said Jean-Pierre Van Roy, the patriarch of the city’s great Cantillon brewery, when I put the question to him during a fall visit. “Most restaurateurs are very discreet with it as an ingredient. But there are a few who cook meals where you can actually taste the beer.” Armed with tips from Mr. Van Roy, as well as friends in the city, I spent a few days tracking down food that highlights the country’s brews, and for which the proper pairing is a drink made of barley, not grapes. These four restaurants serve meals that celebrate Belgium’s complex and often challenging beers, in settings that include upscale and casual. Les Brigittines Make no mistake: The beautiful, belle époque-style Brigittines is a great restaurant, not a “beer restaurant.” But mention la cuisine à la bière to the chef, Dirk Myny, and his eyes will light up as he points to the dishes on his menu that he makes with beer, before offering to rework other recipes to include even more brews. In what is primarily a wine list, pride of place is given to barley, with gueuze — the traditional sour ale of the region — and other artisanal beers in their rightful position: just before Champagne, at the very top of the list. Lemony gueuze from Cantillon appears in several dishes, including a starter, Zenne pot. Like a deconstructed choucroute garnie, this timbale layers sour cabbage, bits of smoked ham and tender chunks of whelks (sea snails) atop a crust of boudin noir, or black pudding. “You’ve got the sweetness from the boudin noir, you’ve got the smokiness from the pork, and then the acidity from the gueuze,” Mr. Myny explained, zigzagging from the expected by pairing the dish with a white wine, a gros plant from the Nantes region, whose mineral notes clash pleasantly with the appetizer’s umami flavors. Beer-inflected main courses include braised beef cheeks. After hearing about my interest, Mr. Myny offered to pair another dish, cod, with a gueuze sabayon. Served on a bed of nutty spelt, the thick, flaky fillet contrasted with the sourness of the sauce and its eggy, puddinglike notes from eggs and beer. Advertisement For dessert, Les Brigittines serves a fig poached in kriek lambic, the cherry-soaked version of the lambic base beer that is aged and blended in order to make gueuze. The cherry notes of the beer seem to amplify the fruitiness of the fig. Reduced and sweetened, the poaching liquid is served alongside in the form of a cherry-and-fig granita. With a dose of aromatic Herve cream cheese (an original Belgian Limburger from the Duchy of Limburg), the dish is alternately sweet, sour, creamy and crunchy, and a near overdose of fruit flavors. More important, it’s the very opposite of the misconception of beer food as overly heavy and filling. Les Brigittines, 5 Place de la Chapelle; 32-2-512-6891; lesbrigittines.com. An average meal for two, without drinks or tip, is about 120 euros, $162 at $1.35 to the euro. Nüetnigenough Named after a local term for someone who can never have enough, it may be referring to its own lack of space. Overlooking a busy street near the Grand Place, this narrow, high-ceilinged cafe has 22 seats, with a few stools at a short bar, and seemingly no shortage of beer-loving fans. Food choices are similarly limited, with just a handful of tapas (olives, anchovies, ham and meatballs) and about a dozen mains mostly following the classic formula of meat + beer = good. Straight from grandma’s cookbook, the traditional carbonade slow-cooks thick chunks of beef in a spicy dark ale from the Rochefort monastery, coming out extremely tender if not terribly complex, and contrasting nicely with a side of crispy frites. (In a city that adores fried potatoes, this restaurant’s crunchy fries may be the best you’ll find.) Another home-style dish, oiseaux sans tête, rolls a sausagelike patty of ground pork in a thin beef fillet, dressing it with a bittersweet sauce made with hoppy Belle-Fleur beer, and accompanying it with a side of stoemp, a hearty, savory cake of mashed potatoes and carrots. Other recipes are slightly more adventurous (and lighter), like the chicken fillet in a fragrant and acidic sauce of shallots and the underrated Cuvée René kriek, but the general sense here is one of tradition and history, backed up by the attractive Art Nouveau and Cubistic décor. Tiny Nüetnigenough is modest, but it has many good aspects, not the least of which is affordability: all main courses are less than 20 euros, a rarity in central Brussels. Moreover, the short beer list contains nothing but winners, including Frank Boon’s revered Mariage Parfait gueuze and kriek, as well as specials from cult favorites like De Ranke, Alvinne and Brouwers Verzet. Beyond the main beer menu, a separate list of beer rarities includes a dry-hopped magnum (1.5 liters) of Saison Dupont, Cantillon’s Cognac-barrel-aged 50°N-4°E, and Château Migraine from Het Alternatief, a beer that, at this writing, has just 11 ratings on Ratebeer. Nüetnigenough, 25 rue du Lombard; 32-2-513-7884; nuetnigenough.be. An average meal for two is about 70 euros. Restobières “You are in my dream,” the owner Alain Fayt bellows at arriving guests, waving his arms around this small, antiques-laden restaurant not far from the city’s flea market. With its bizarre bric-a-brac décor (cake plates on the ceiling, asparagus crocks on the wall), Mr. Fayt’s dream comes off like a febrile hallucination, a sentiment furthered by the recipes, almost all of which include a Belgian brew: stoemp is made with the peppery golden ale La Chouffe, a tilapia fillet is cooked in Brouwerij Van Eecke’s flowery Hommelbier, and a blanquette de veau is stewed in Brasserie de Silly’s fruity Double Enghien. One of the high points here is Mr. Fayt’s creativity with pairings: Instead of picking the Trappist ale Chimay to serve with a raclette of the monastery’s own cheese, he might offer the obscure Boerinneken, whose candy flavors and notes of clove spice nicely counterbalance the gooey muskiness from the cheese. Mention that you don’t like Gouden Carolus and he’ll suggest the remarkable Jambe de Bois — an elegant, easy-drinking, not too sugary tripel from Brasserie de la Senne — to pair with your main course of scallops and mussels. Bathed in a creamy, shrimp-scented Ostend sauce that employs Brasserie Dupont’s Moinette in the place of wine, the mussels and scallops seem to taste sweeter with each sip. Advertisement Still, sometimes the most obvious pairings work best. A dessert of dark chocolate mousse made with Hercule stout from Brasserie des Légendes in the town of Ellezelles (birthplace of the fictional detective Hercule Poirot) brings out the bitterness of the oak-aged beer when you taste the two together. With a sweeter beer, the dessert might be overwhelmed. A casual neighborhood joint, Restobières isn’t perfect, and in part it seems to suffer from its own popularity, making reservations (and patience, once you’ve arrived) absolutely essential. Still, it has several nice touches, like the fluffy beer bread, baked in-house, which comes with an oniony cheese spread that just may be the city’s best beer snack. If you do have to wait, there’s plenty to enjoy in the charming junk-shop atmosphere, and the strong beer list includes seasonal specials and uncommon brands like Cazeau and Rulles. Advertisement Restobières, 9 rue des Renards; 32-2-511-5583; restobieres.eu. An average meal for two, without drinks or tip, is about 100 euros. De Heeren van Liedekercke For some of the best beer cooking in Brussels, you may have to leave Brussels proper. In the neighboring town of Denderleeuw, close to the village of Liedekercke, a restaurant called De Heeren van Liedekercke has served quality beer food for some 22 years, though it remains relatively under the radar because of its location. De Heeren is not for the faint of heart: After a 30-minute ride on a local commuter train, several of which depart every hour, the restaurant is still a good 30-minute walk from either the Denderleeuw or the Liedekercke train stations. What makes it worth the trip? (A) The chance to watch village grandmothers with purple-rinsed hair gossip over long-cellared bottles of Orval; (B) a beer list that tops 450 names, including all the great Belgian sours, with a separate book just for aged bottles; and (C) plates of extremely good Flemish and Wallonian cooking, almost all of which are made with regional beer and ingredients. A starter of crunchy Zeebrugge shrimp croquettes — crisp on the outside, like a savory custard on the inside — is served with a mixed salad dressed with a “vinaigrette” of Oud Bruin, another type of sour brown ale. Fillet of plaice, steamed mussels and bread crumbs come dressed in garlicky gueuze sauce, presenting contrasting textures as well as sour-but-salty flavors. Advertisement And in the place of coq au vin, coq à la bière stews smoky bacon, fragrant mushrooms, aromatic onions and a whole chicken breast in Mort Subite lambic until the whole thing reaches maximum tenderness. A side dish of tangy-sweet applesauce — made from the restaurant’s own apple trees — contrasts with the stew. In terms of beer cooking in (or around) Brussels, De Heeren may be the true sweet spot: The food is accomplished but not extravagant, and the bottle list is one of the country’s best. That said, there are several downsides to the place, starting with the trouble of getting there. Second, the menu is overcomplicated, a situation that seems unlikely to change. But the friendly owners have been known to offer rides to or from the train station to guests. And once you see how many of Belgium’s rare brews you still have left to try, you might consider simply staying here forever. De Heeren van Liedekercke, Kasteelstraat 33, Denderleeuw; 32-53-68-0888; heerenvanliedekercke.be. An average meal for two is about 80 euros. A version of this article appears in print on March 30, 2014, on page TR4 of the New York edition with the headline: Where What Is Brewing Is a Recipe. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
U.S.   David Elson. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Video David Elson By Erica Berenstein and Emma Cott | Mar. 31, 2014 | 0:32 “I think in the long run if I have to go to too many specialists this year, I’ll be all right…I just hope I can afford this insurance.” Show More PlaylistUp Next in Video Next → Op-Docs: Season 5 9:23 I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked   Video1:08 Hitting all the Right Notes Op-Docs: Season 5 13:33 Manufacturing China’s Future Op-Docs: Season 5 6:05 Fashion vs. Art   Video0:56 Excerpt: ‘The Father’   Video0:33 Excerpt: ‘Exit Strategy’ Op-Docs: Season 5 7:19 A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race   Video1:58 Excerpt: ‘Antlia Pneumatica’   News Clips: Europe1:20 Officials React to Panama Papers   News Clips: Europe3:47 Mossack Fonseca on Data Leak © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Business   At Mozilla, a Chief’s Support of Gay Marriage Ban Causes Conflict. Advertisement   People who once debated the benefits of different web browsers are now embroiled in a heated discussion about gay marriage, and Mozilla, the maker of Firefox, is at the center of that debate. The troubles began when Brendan Eich, a programmer and creator of the JavaScript programming language, was appointed as the new chief executive of Mozilla last week. Since then, three board members have quit the company, current employees have publicly denounced Mr. Eich, and now Firefox is being publicly criticized on another website. On Monday, OKCupid, an online dating site, made it difficult for people using Mozilla Firefox to access its service, stating unequivocally that this decision was a result of Mr. Eich being an “opponent of equal rights for gay couples.” Mr. Eich first came under fire when it was revealed that he donated $1,000 in 2008 to support a ban on gay marriage called Proposition 8. Justin O’Kelly, a media relations manager at Mozilla, did not respond to a request for comment but pointed to a blog post written by Mr. Eich. “I am committed to ensuring that Mozilla is, and will remain, a place that includes and supports everyone, regardless of sexual orientation, gender identity, age, race, ethnicity, economic status or religion,” Mr. Eich wrote in the post. “You will see exemplary behavior from me toward everyone in our community, no matter who they are; and the same toward all those whom we hope will join, and for those who use our products.” The promise of openness with employees did little to appease board members who left the company two weeks ago. Gary Kovacs and John Lilly, both former Mozilla chief executives, and Ellen Siminoff, chief executive of the education start-up Shmoop, left the Mozilla board immediately prior to Mr. Eich officially becoming C.E.O. A Mozilla spokesperson tried to downplay the turmoil, telling ArsTechnica: “The three board members ended their terms last week for a variety of reasons. Two had been planning to leave for some time, one since January and one explicitly at the end of the C.E.O. search, regardless of the person selected.” Last week, a number of current Mozilla employees aired their frustrations in public, taking to Twitter to voice concerns about the appointment of Mr. Eich as chief executive and saying that he should step down. The outcry stems in part from the ideals of Mozilla, a company that has prided itself on openness on the web. Mr. Eich has been relatively quiet toward people railing against him on Twitter, but has taken the opportunity to separate his own views from the company he now runs. “Mozilla has no say in employees’ contributions. CA law requires donors to list employer,” he wrote in response to a tweet. It is unclear if this outcry will affect the status of Mozilla. According to Net Market Share, which tracks the use of Internet technologies, Firefox is currently used by 18 percent of the web. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Food   Food Curated: Bacchanal Pepper Sauce. Channels & Shows Home Search Food Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Food Food Curated: Bacchanal Pepper Sauce By Liza de Guia | Mar. 31, 2014 | 5:04 Sonya Samuel’s hot sauce recipe relies heavily on Scotch Bonnet peppers for their heat, but it’s the addition of fruit that sets it apart. Related: article: Video: Bacchanal Pepper Sauce Show More PlaylistUp Next in Food Next → Melissa Clark Food2:08 Coconut Cluster Granola   International1:04 McDonald’s Copycat in Separatist Ukraine Melissa Clark Food1:51 Green Garlic Tabbouleh   Food1:46 Beer-Brined Roast Chicken | Taste Makers   Taste Makers6:32 Finding Your Flavors in the Kitchen | Taste Makers   Food1:12 Tomatillo Pineapple Salsa | Taste Makers   Taste Makers5:40 Growing Organics ‘Sin Fronteras’ | Taste Makers   Food1:16 Jollof Rice | Taste Makers   Taste Makers6:01 Nigerian Food, Crash-and-Burn Style | Taste Makers Melissa Clark Food2:33 Chicken and Artichokes © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Foreign   Image of the Day: March 31. Advertisement India’s national elections began April 7 and will continue on nine separate dates until May 12, with results expected to be announced on May 16. The vote is the world’s largest, with 814 million eligible voters set to choose 543 members of the lower house of Parliament. The other two seats will be appointed by the president. This election is widely considered to be India’s most consequential since 1977. India Ink will be moving to the World page of The New York Times. Read more… A memorial ceremony at the Imphal War Cemetery in Manipur to honor the soldiers who died during World War II.Read more… The newly elected prime minister reaches out to the public in a blog post about his first 30 days in office.Read more… Newborns whose mothers are unable to breastfeed are given stored breast milk to protect them from potentially life-threatening infection.Read more… In the final stage of a long decline, Hindustan Motors announced in May that it would suspend production of the Ambassador, a car that was once synonymous with style and status.Read more… This report on India from the journalists of The New York Times and a pool of talented writers in India and beyond provides unbiased, authoritative reporting on the country and its place in the world. India Ink also strives to be a virtual meeting point for discussion of this complex, fast-changing democracy – its politics, economy, culture and everyday life. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Science   The Device Makers’ Shortcut Sign Up for the Running Email. Advertisement A few years ago, the Food and Drug Administration announced a stunning recall, saying that electrical wires in some St. Jude Medical heart defibrillators, which were implanted in tens of thousands of people, were defective. It was a rerun for cardiac patients: In 2007, Medtronic recalled its Sprint Fidelis cardiac devices because of faulty wires. In both cases, the F.D.A. warned that the wires could cause painful shocks or fail when needed, and patients were left to choose between living with the leads under close monitoring or having dangerous surgery to replace them. Both companies reported deaths linked to the flawed leads. Advice on money and health.  Now a new paper by Harvard researchers, using records only recently made available by the F.D.A., explains how the faulty leads got onto the market, shedding light on a little-known process used by manufacturers to alter medical devices without putting them through human trials. (An approval pathway for lower-risk medical devices, called the 510(k) clearance, has received more public scrutiny, including harsh criticism from the Institute of Medicine.)  For so-called high-risk devices like heart defibrillators, the F.D.A. typically requires proof of safety and effectiveness in clinical trials with real patients under real-life conditions. But once such a device receives initial approval, the researchers found, an administrative maneuver permits companies to tinker with it — making the electrical wire thinner, for example — without testing the changes in a single patient. The process, called a premarket approval supplement application, allows manufacturers to get upgrades and improvements to patients faster, medical device companies say. The application is “intended for a change to an already approved P.M.A. that has met the agency’s rigorous requirements for safety and effectiveness,” said Janet Trunzo, senior executive vice president for technology and regulatory affairs with AdvaMed, a trade association. She noted that the F.D.A. could require a more rigorous review process if necessary. The problem is that a device can be modified over and over, even dozens of times, without ever being put through new trials in patients. From 1979 and 2012, the researchers found, the F.D.A. approved 77 new cardiac-implanted electronic devices like pacemakers and defibrillators. During that same period, the agency approved nearly 6,000 supplement applications. A spokesman for Medtronic said the company did test the Sprint Fidelis’s new leads in patients, but the trials were begun in November 2003, around the time the company also filed its supplement applications, and the resulting data were not shared with the F.D.A. before the thinner leads went on the market. The study was published only in 2007, shortly before the recall. For each device that went through the full premarket approval process, 50 subsequent changes were made, researchers also found. “Over time, the accumulation of changes may lead to a device that is substantially different than the original product,” said Dr. Aaron S. Kesselheim, senior author of the paper, published in JAMA, the journal of the American Medical Association. “Most of top-selling devices that are out on the market now have all been approved via supplements for the last 10 years,” he said. They are “substantially different” from the versions originally approved, he said. While some of the supplement changes were minor, like rewriting instructions or changing the color, 37 percent involved a change to the device’s design, Dr. Kesselheim and his colleagues said. Companies are not required to mention the changes on the package labels, and generally do not. As a result, doctors are often unaware which version of the device they are implanting, said Dr. Rita Redberg, a cardiologist and professor at University of California, San Francisco, who has written on the topic. “These supplements are not just flying under patients’ radar screens, they’re flying under doctors’ radar screens,” Dr. Redberg said. The recalled wire in St. Jude’s defibrillator was approved as a supplement to a device whose original design had been approved in 1996 but had undergone 78 supplementary revisions, according to the research. The recalled Sprint Fidelis lead was approved as a supplement to a device originally approved in 1993 and modified 91 times. “These leads may have worked in the lab, but that is very different from what happens inside a human blood vessel,” Dr. Redberg said. “People move around, they’re very complex, and the lead is going to be exposed to a lot more stress and forces of resistance.” Clinical trials don’t always find rare complications. But the failure rate in St. Jude’s device was high enough that it would have been noticed in a trial, she said. The pace of supplements has increased significantly during the past decade, to 704 a year from 77, the researchers found. The last time an implantable cardioverter defibrillator went through a full rigorous premarket approval process was in 2000, the researchers said, “indicating that all models released since then have been supplements” to existing models. But since a Supreme Court decision in 2008 determined that manufacturers were immune from liability for personal injuries as long as their devices had been approved by the F.D.A., injured patients who want to sue face an uphill battle. Dr. Kesselheim and his colleagues put forth several proposals in their article, suggesting the F.D.A. convene a panel of experts to review approved medical devices every five to seven years and determine whether the clinical data from the older models still applied to the newer versions. But the agency appears to have rejected the idea. An automatic advisory panel review is not “a necessary or efficient use of F.D.A. or taxpayer resources,” said Susan Laine, a spokeswoman. A version of this article appears in print on 04/01/2014, on page D4 of the NewYork edition with the headline: The Device Makers’ Shortcut. Your health questions answered by Times journalists and experts. Your Questions | All » Get Well's Running email for practical tips, expert advice, exclusive content and a bit of motivation delivered to your inbox every week to help you on your running journey. Coming soon. How much do you know about the amazing things that go on in your gut? Take our quiz to find out about the creepy, crawly critters living in your home. What surface is the most friendly to the flu virus? Where’s the best place to stand when you’re talking to a sick person? How does sleep affect health, relationships and well-being? The “Reading the Mind in the Eyes Test” measures ability to understand others’ emotional states. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   Hingis Returns to 2007 Form. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content Skip to navigation View mobile version The New York Times Tennis|Hingis Returns to 2007 Form Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go http://nyti.ms/1dGODan Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Supported by Tennis | Sports Briefing Hingis Returns to 2007 Form By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 31, 2014 Continue reading the main story Share This Page Continue reading the main story Martina Hingis won her first doubles title since 2007 as she and Sabine Lisicki defeated Ekaterina Makarova and Elena Vesnina, 4-6, 6-4, 10-5, at the Sony Open in Key Biscayne, Fla. A version of this brief appears in print on March 31, 2014, on page D8 of the New York edition with the headline: Hingis Returns to 2007 Form. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Continue reading the main story What's Next Loading... Go to Home Page » Site Index The New York Times Site Index Navigation News World U.S. Politics N.Y. Business Tech Science Health Sports Education Obituaries Today's Paper Corrections Opinion Today's Opinion Op-Ed Columnists Editorials Contributing Writers Op-Ed Contributors Opinionator Letters Sunday Review Taking Note Room for Debate Public Editor Video: Opinion Arts Today's Arts Art & Design ArtsBeat Books Dance Movies Music N.Y.C. Events Guide Television Theater Video: Arts Living Automobiles Crossword Food Education Fashion & Style Health Jobs Magazine N.Y.C. Events Guide Real Estate T Magazine Travel Weddings & Celebrations Listings & More Classifieds Tools & Services Times Topics Public Editor N.Y.C. Events Guide Blogs Multimedia Photography Video NYT Store Times Journeys Subscribe Manage My Account Subscribe Subscribe Times Insider Home Delivery Digital Subscriptions NYT Opinion Crossword Email Newsletters Alerts Gift Subscriptions Corporate Subscriptions Education Rate Mobile Applications Replica Edition International New York Times Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Travel   Frequent Flier Miles, for a Cause. Advertisement Airlines don’t always make it easy to use their frequent flier miles to pay for travel. But one charity offers a feel-good option: donate them to send a sick child to Disney World. Beginning Wednesday and continuing through the month, Make-a-Wish America is running a spring mileage drive to encourage donors to contribute frequent flier miles on United, Delta and US Airways. Make-a-Wish uses the miles to pay for flights to grant the wishes of a child between the ages of 2 and a half and 18 with a life-threatening illness. Each year, the charity grants the wishes of around 14,000 children who might wish to go to Australia, buy a laptop, meet a sports star or be a superhero for a day. About 10,000 of those wishes involve travel, requiring an estimated 50,000 airline tickets (each child travels with his or her family) or about 2.5 billion air miles. The charity isn’t looking for just the miles-rich to donate. It aims to target occasional fliers as well, particularly those with miles set to expire. Participating airlines will extend the life of expiring miles indefinitely if donated to the charity. “With miles it’s something that’s so easy because a few hundred here or there doesn’t make that much difference in my travels, and I can still feel like I can help,” said the Make-a-Wish spokeswoman Casey Thompson. Miles can be donated throughout the year but the spring drive is earmarked for the busiest travel season, summer. In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
U.S.   Weather Hampers Landslide Search Efforts. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Video Weather Hampers Landslide Search Efforts Mar. 31, 2014 | 1:04 The program manager of the Snohomish County Department of Emergency Management, Jason Biermann, and Lt. Richard Burke of the Bellevue Fire Department explained how the weather has affected the search. Show More PlaylistUp Next in Video Next → Op-Docs: Season 5 9:23 I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked   Video1:08 Hitting all the Right Notes Op-Docs: Season 5 13:33 Manufacturing China’s Future Op-Docs: Season 5 6:05 Fashion vs. Art   Video0:56 Excerpt: ‘The Father’   Video0:33 Excerpt: ‘Exit Strategy’ Op-Docs: Season 5 7:19 A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race   Video1:58 Excerpt: ‘Antlia Pneumatica’   News Clips: Europe1:20 Officials React to Panama Papers   News Clips: Europe3:47 Mossack Fonseca on Data Leak © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Business   Out of This World. Advertisement By David Levinson Wilk Apr 2, 2014 The New York Times Crossword is available through subscription only. WEDNESDAY’S PUZZLE — I stared at my finished grid for quite a while before I understood what the theme was, yet there it was, staring back at me the entire time. Hands up if this one by David Levinson Wilk took you a while. It was the cryptic-style cluing that slowed me down, but it’s Wednesday, so I’m not really surprised that the hint was lying quietly in wait for my brain to get it. The “out of” part of each clue suggests that the entry is an anagram of another part of the clue. Fortunately for us, the theme is pretty tight and the part that needs anagramming is always after “out of”. So, for those of you who might just be joining us, that means that when you see the clue “Weapon part that’s out of this world”, the formula you need to solve the clue is to anagram “this world” so that it spells something that could be considered a weapon part, in this case a SWORD HILT. Now go and do that for the other four theme entries. I had a few misfirings even in the nontheme part of the puzzle. I had NAIVE instead of NEW AT for 9 Across, until the “potted physician” ALOE came to my rescue and I had ITO as the Spanish diminutive suffix instead of ITA until I realized that 22 Down was about the Department of AGRiculture. I also loved I GOT NEXT, which makes its debut today. Clue of the day goes to 24 Across’s “Paper tiger, maybe?” for ORIGAMI. Let’s find out what Mr. Wilk is up to: 1) A few months ago, I sent the White House a letter stating that, in 2005, I became the first puzzle constructor to use OBAMA as an answer in a New York Times crossword. With my letter, I included a printout of every Times clue for OBAMA to date (pulled from xwordinfo.com) because I thought the president would get a kick out of seeing it. Last week, I received a note in the mail that contained a handwritten message from President Obama thanking me for the memento. Good stuff. 2) If you are a young person reading this (14 is young; so is 33) and you think you might, sorta, wanna construct a crossword, I strongly encourage you to do it. As a college student, I sent an embarrassing-looking piece of filled-in graph paper to Will Shortz and his response could not have been more encouraging. If you happen to publish a crossword, it will open doors for you. Do it, do it, do it. 3) I always love seeing Will’s improvements to my clues. These originally-submitted clues are simply for your amusement: ORCA (15A): Animal whose name features the postal abbreviations of U.S. states it swims by during migration. POTOK (19A): Novelist whose name makes him sound like a proponent of marijuana legalization. 4) If you like crosswords (you’re reading this so … you might), you should think about getting a book that’s coming out this month called “TEDtalks Across, TMZ Down.” It has 90 crosswords in it. And they’re pretty good. They’re also by today’s constructor, Mr. Wilk. “TRY A Little Tenderness” was a huge hit for Otis Redding, but I decided to post this cover by Jamie Bruce, a contestant on Britain’s version of “The Voice.” His voice blew me away, and to this day, I still don’t know what took Sir Tom Jones so long to turn his chair around: Your thoughts? Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. David Kahn puts us through the wringer.Read more… Emily Cox and Henry Rathvon offer us a challenging cryptic crossword puzzle.Read more… A place for solvers to discuss and ask questions about the “A Little Variety” suite of puzzles.Read more… Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   Image of the Day: April 1. Advertisement India’s national elections began April 7 and will continue on nine separate dates until May 12, with results expected to be announced on May 16. The vote is the world’s largest, with 814 million eligible voters set to choose 543 members of the lower house of Parliament. The other two seats will be appointed by the president. This election is widely considered to be India’s most consequential since 1977. India Ink will be moving to the World page of The New York Times. Read more… A memorial ceremony at the Imphal War Cemetery in Manipur to honor the soldiers who died during World War II.Read more… The newly elected prime minister reaches out to the public in a blog post about his first 30 days in office.Read more… Newborns whose mothers are unable to breastfeed are given stored breast milk to protect them from potentially life-threatening infection.Read more… In the final stage of a long decline, Hindustan Motors announced in May that it would suspend production of the Ambassador, a car that was once synonymous with style and status.Read more… This report on India from the journalists of The New York Times and a pool of talented writers in India and beyond provides unbiased, authoritative reporting on the country and its place in the world. India Ink also strives to be a virtual meeting point for discussion of this complex, fast-changing democracy – its politics, economy, culture and everyday life. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Science   Low Vitamin D Levels Linked to Disease in Two Big Studies Sign Up for the Running Email. Advertisement People with low vitamin D levels are more likely to die from cancer and heart disease and to suffer from other illnesses, scientists reported in two large studies published on Tuesday. The new research suggests strongly that blood levels of vitamin D are a good barometer of overall health. But it does not resolve the question of whether low levels are a cause of disease or simply an indicator of behaviors that contribute to poor health, like a sedentary lifestyle, smoking and a diet heavy in processed and unhealthful foods. Nicknamed the sunshine nutrient, vitamin D is produced in the body when the skin is exposed to sunlight. It can be obtained from a small assortment of foods, including fish, eggs, fortified dairy products and organ meats. And blood levels of it can be lowered by smoking, obesity and inflammation. Vitamin D helps the body absorb calcium and is an important part of the immune system. Receptors for the vitamin and related enzymes are found throughout cells and tissues of the body, suggesting it may be vital to many physiological functions, said Dr. Oscar H. Franco, a professor of preventive medicine at Erasmus Medical Center in the Netherlands and an author of one of the new studies, which appeared in the journal BMJ. “It has effects at the genetic level, and it affects cardiovascular health and bone health,” he said. “There are different hypotheses for the factors that vitamin D regulates, from genes to inflammation. That’s the reason vitamin D seems so promising.” The two studies were meta-analyses that included data on more than a million people. They included observational findings on the relationship between disease and blood levels of vitamin D. The researchers also reviewed evidence from randomized controlled trials — the gold standard in scientific research — that assessed whether taking vitamin D daily was beneficial. Dr. Franco and his co-authors — a team of scientists at Harvard, Oxford and other universities — found persuasive evidence that vitamin D protects against major diseases. Adults with lower levels of the vitamin in their systems had a 35 percent increased risk of death from heart disease, 14 percent greater likelihood of death from cancer, and a greater mortality risk overall. When the researchers looked at supplement use, they found no benefit to taking one form of the vitamin, D2. But middle-aged and older adults who took another form, vitamin D3 — which is the type found in fish and dairy products and produced in response to sunlight — had an 11 percent reduction in mortality from all causes, compared to adults who did not. In the United States and Europe, it is estimated that more than two-thirds of the population is deficient in vitamin D. In their paper, Dr. Franco and his colleagues calculated that roughly 13 percent of all deaths in the United States, and 9 percent in Europe, could be attributed to low vitamin D levels. “We are talking about a large part of the population being affected by this,” he said. “Vitamin D could be a good route to prevent mortality from cardiovascular disease and other causes of mortality.” In the second study, also published in BMJ, a team of researchers at Stanford and several universities in Europe presented a more nuanced view of vitamin D. They concluded there was “suggestive evidence” that high vitamin D levels protect against diabetes, stroke, hypertension and a host of other illnesses. But they also said there was no “highly convincing” evidence that vitamin D pills affected any of the outcomes they examined. “Based on what we found, we cannot recommend widespread supplementation,” said Evropi Theodoratou, an author of the study and research fellow at the Center for Population Health Sciences at the University of Edinburgh. The second study also looked at bone health. While Vitamin D had long been believed to help prevent osteoporosis fractures from falls, clinical trials in recent years have challenged the idea. The study also found no evidence to support that assumption. “Vitamin D might not be as essential as previously thought in maintaining bone mineral density,” Dr. Theodoratou and her colleagues wrote. Dr. Theodoratou was not alone in suggesting people hold off on taking vitamin D supplements for now. Even though Dr. Franco found them to be beneficial, he said that more research was needed to show what levels are best. Instead of taking pills, people could improve their vitamin D levels with an adequate diet and 30 minutes of sunlight twice a week, he said. “The most important factors in obtaining vitamin D are going out and doing some exercise and following a healthy diet,” he added. And in an editorial that accompanied the studies in BMJ, Paul Welsh and Dr. Naveed Sattar of the British Heart Foundation’s Glasgow Cardiovascular Research Center pointed out that previous research “extolled the virtues of antioxidant vitamins only for major trials of vitamins E and C and beta carotene to show null, or even some harmful, effects of supplementation.” They said vitamin D pills should not be recommended widely until clinical trials that are underway shed more light on the benefits and potential side effects. But Duffy MacKay, a spokesman for the Council for Responsible Nutrition, a supplement industry trade group, said that vitamin D is not easily obtained through food alone, and noted that exposure to sunlight has its dangers. He said he agreed with Dr. Franco that more research was needed to identify “an optimal dose and duration” of vitamin D. “But there is enough positive research currently to indicate that people should be supplementing with vitamin D for a variety of positive health outcomes,” he added. Your health questions answered by Times journalists and experts. Your Questions | All » Get Well's Running email for practical tips, expert advice, exclusive content and a bit of motivation delivered to your inbox every week to help you on your running journey. Coming soon. How much do you know about the amazing things that go on in your gut? Take our quiz to find out about the creepy, crawly critters living in your home. What surface is the most friendly to the flu virus? Where’s the best place to stand when you’re talking to a sick person? How does sleep affect health, relationships and well-being? The “Reading the Mind in the Eyes Test” measures ability to understand others’ emotional states. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   Highlights and Analysis: Yankees Lose Season Opener in Houston. Advertisement The Yankees could not recover from C.C. Sabathia’s ugly start and lost the season opener, 6-2., to the Houston Astros. Continue reading for highlights and analysis. The Yankees could not recover from Sabathia’s ugly start and lost the season opener, 6-2. Was there any good news tonight? Well, there are 161 more games to play, so that’s good. No Yankees got hurt, including Jeter, who was hit in the left forearm by a pitch in the first inning. Sabathia did settle down after yielding six runs in the first two innings, striking out five in the four scoreless innings that followed. The bullpen was very sharp, with Betances and Vidal Nuno striking out a combined five of six batters. The only runs came in the eighth inning, two of them on singles by McCann and Teixeira. The Yankees will try again on Wednesday night with Hiroki Kuroda making the start against Jarred Cosart. Ellsbury led off the inning with a walk and Jeter followed with his first hit of the season, a single to right field. Ellsbury eventually scored on a McCann single, and Teixeira nudged the ball through the left side of the shift to bring home Jeter. But before hopes got too high, Soriano grounded into an inning-ending double play. Yankees fans will remember Dellin Betances as one of the “Killer B’s,” the trio of Yankees pitching prospects (along with Manuel Banuelos and Andrew Brackman) that were highly thought of just a few years ago. Brackman is no longer with the Yankees and Banuelos is recovering from Tommy John surgery, but Betances is still very much relevant. Betances, once thought of as a possible future anchor of the rotation, reinvented himself as a relief pitcher this past spring and earned a spot in the bullpen. Betances just showed us why, striking out two in a perfect seventh inning, mixing his four-seam fastball (in the high-90s) with a nasty knuckle curve. The Yankees bullpen has question marks, so there’s room for Betances to play a major role. Johnson was retired easily on a dribbler back to the mound. Sabathia’s night also appears to be over. He managed to settle down after two scary innings, which gives Girardi something positive to say during the postgame press conference. The Yankees have their first major threat of the game. The bases are loaded with two outs, and Kelly Johnson is stepping up. Feldman is finished after a stellar first start, but a walk, hit batsman and a single to Teixeira led to his exit. Teixeira, who has reached base twice now (walk and single), is one of the many question marks in the Yankees’ infield as the former All-Star is attempting to come back from wrist surgery. “Everyone can go out after major surgery and say they feel fine,” Teixeira said earlier this spring. “But you never really know it until you go out there.” Last season, the Yankees sorely missed the player who averaged 34 home runs and 106 runs batted in over his first four seasons with the club and whose defense is second to none at first base. Teixeira’s numbers this spring were anything but impressive, with only three hits in 35 at-bats. But more importantly, he did not suffer any setbacks regarding his health. Yankee fans will also be quick to remind skeptics the Teixeira is a notoriously slow starter. I’ve been a bit surprised to hear the reaction that Beltran has gotten by the Houston fans. He played for the Astros for just a few months in 2004, but almost carried them to the World Series that fall, batting .435 with 8 home runs 14 runs batted in during the playoffs. But he chose to sign with the Mets that following season, and the Astros fans are still angry about that, apparently. Beltran still has the only Yankees hit here in the seventh inning, Astros still lead 6-0. For any Yankees fans looking for good news on this bleak opening night, Jeter has looked like his old self playing the field. There have not been any highlight reel moments, but on the balls hit to him tonight, he is having no issues with his footing and making strong throws. Exciting, I know. But it is encouraging. The first Yankees hit of the 2014 season came off of the bat of Carlos Beltran, who signed a three-year, $45 million contract with the Yankees this off-season. For Beltran, who will turn 37 on April 24, this is his second tour with a New York club, so he knows what to expect playing in a big market. “I learned that you have to be strong mentally,” he said this spring. “Don’t worry about what people say about you, what you hear on TV, read in the newspaper. I came from a small-market team, the Kansas City Royals, so that first year in New York was hard for me. I was too nice. I tried to accommodate everybody. I forgot about the reason I was brought to New York — to play baseball. Instead, I tried to please people.” His hit did not lead to a run. The Yankees had two on with two out, after a Teixeira walk, but Feldman got Soriano out swinging. They still trail, 6-0, heading into the bottom of the fourth. It was not supposed to start like this for Sabathia. The Astros tacked on two more runs in the second inning, one on a solo homer by L.J. Hoes and another on a single by Altuve. While it’s true Sabathia had the worst season of his career in 2013, including his highest earned run average (4.78) and his lowest winning percentage (.519), he did finish the season strong, or at least better, with a 3.90 E.R.A. in September. He also didn’t allow a home run over his last four starts. The improvement came after Sabathia rediscovered some old things and figured out some new things, like how to get by with a fastball in the lower 90s rather than mid-to-high 90s. That success carried over to the spring for Sabathia. “I feel unbelievable,” he said recently. “All the work in the off-season this spring has really paid off. My arm feels great, my knees feel fantastic. I have no complaints. I feel really strong and ready to start the season.” Maybe that will translate to success this season, eventually. The differences between the Yankees and Astros are stark and obvious. Most glaring is in team payroll, with Houston having the lowest in the majors ($45 million) and the Yankees the second-highest ($204 million). After finishing with the worst record in baseball (51-111), the Astros made a few changes, trading for the outfielder Dexter Fowler and signing starting pitcher Scott Feldman. Feldman, tonight’s starting pitcher, is earning more than a quarter of the team’s total payroll for 2014 ($12 million) after going 12-12 with a 3.86 E.R.A. with the Chicago Cubs and Baltimore Orioles. But the thing to know about the Astros is that they are loaded with young talent, with their best players waiting in the wings. Their top prospects include: shortstop Carlos Correa, first baseman Jon Singleton, starters Mark Appel and Mike Foltynewicz, and outfielders Delino DeShields Jr. and George Springer. “Nobody knows when this team’s going to turn the page and start winning a lot of ballgames, but everything is headed in that direction right now,” Feldman said this spring. “We’ve got the No. 1-rated farm system. You know when that wave of talent reaches this level, they’re going to be here for a while.” The future looks bright, and so does the present. They lead the Yankees, 4-0, heading into the bottom half of the second. Has Andy Pettitte come out of retirement yet? — Harvey Araton (@HarveyAraton) 1 Apr 14 Sabathia has had a very rough first inning, allowing a long lead-off double to Dexter Fowler, who came around to score on a single by Jose Altuve. But it got much worse from there. Altuve stole second and ended up at third on a wild throw by McCann and eventually scored on a fielder’s choice. Then, Jesus Guzman launched one over the left-center field wall. lets recap: Jeter hit by pitch in his first at-bat, CC gives up long 2B in Stros first AB, Yankees have 1 error and 2 more def. miscues… — David Waldstein (@DavidWaldstein) 1 Apr 14 Jeter got a nice hand from the Houston crowd before the first at-bat of his last season. The mood quickly shifted after Jeter was hit on his left forearm with the second pitch. He did not appear to be seriously injured as he stayed in the game. But he was stranded on base as the three big-name additions, Ellsbury, Beltran and McCann, all made outs. Jeter’s spring numbers were weak (.137 average) but, more importantly, his body held up. “I’d rather get out three times and have three good at-bats as opposed to getting three hits.” Jeter said about his spring stats. “In the regular season, it’s the complete opposite.” Overall, Jeter was happy with his spring, saying his timing at the plate was steadily improving. With all the new additions this off-season, one can’t help but think of the Winter of 2009, when the Yankees added several high-priced free agents like Sabathia and Mark Teixeira. The result: a World Series championship. “I think it has a lot of the same feel,” Joe Girardi said this spring. “I think there’s a high expectation with the names that we’ve added. We addressed a lot of situations because of all of the things we went through last year, and there’s a lot of the same feelings.” We’re a long way from October. But we’re just moments away from the first pitch. The great Nolan Ryan threw out the first pitch so wide that Craig Biggio couldn’t catch it. Inauspicious. — David Waldstein (@DavidWaldstein) 1 Apr 14 Tonight is our first chance to see the new and improved Yankees lineup in action. The difference from last year’s opening day squad is drastic, with Brett Gardner the only starting offensive player remaining from April 1, 2013. 2013: Brett Gardner CF; Eduardo Nunez SS; Robinson Cano 2B; Kevin Youkilis 1B; Vernon Wells LF; Ben Francisco DH; Ichiro Suzuki RF; Jayson Nix 3B; Francisco Cervelli C. 2014: Jacoby Ellsbury CF; Derek Jeter SS; Carlos Beltran RF; Brian McCann C; Mark Teixeira 1B; Alfonso Soriano DH; Brett Gardner LF; Brian Roberts 2B; Kelly Johnson 3B. By the end of the season, the Yankees’ lineup didn’t look any closer to what it looks like tonight. In fact, the starting lineup for the last game of the season, against these same Astros, has zero similarities with tonight’s starting nine. Sure, the final game for a team out of the playoff hunt will often feature late-season call-ups, but Curtis Granderson, Cano, Wells, Mark Reynolds, Nunez and to some extent, Travis Hafner, were all regulars on last season’s squad. I heard Derek Jeter had lunch with George H.W. Bush today — the 1st President Bush, who “may make an appearance” here at Minute Maid Park — David Waldstein (@DavidWaldstein) 1 Apr 14 Much has changed for the Yankees since C. C. Sabathia last pitched in a regular-season game. One just has to look at the starting lineup from that Sept. 20 game against the San Francisco Giants. Only one player from that lineup, Alfonso Soriano, is expected to be in Tuesday night’s batting order when the Yankees open their 2014 season against the Astros in Houston. Yes, the Lyle Overbay era came to an end this winter with the infusion of the highly paid, proven talents of Jacoby Ellsbury, Carlos Beltran and Brian McCann, along with the $155 million Japanese import, pitcher Masahiro Tanaka. The Yankees are also banking on the healthy return of Mark Teixeira at first base and Derek Jeter at shortstop, and of pitcher Michael Pineda, an All-Star in 2011 with Seattle at age 22 whose impressive spring earned him the fifth spot in the starting rotation. But one thing that has stayed true since September is that Sabathia is the ace of the pitching staff, and he will need to look the part more than he did last season if the Yankees want to make the playoffs. After the worst season of his career, 14-13 with a 4.78 earned run average, Sabathia made changes this spring. No longer able to rely on an overpowering fastball, he worked on adding a cut fastball and mixed in more changeups, and the results were promising. He finished the exhibition season 3-1 with a 1.29 E.R.A. Sabathia is also stronger physically than he was entering 2013, when he was recovering from elbow surgery. “Last year, I kind of had some doubts going into the year, not feeling strong, weak, my elbow, just questions,” Sabathia told David Waldstein. “And this year feels great. I feel like I don’t have anything to worry about.” Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Travel   Scribd Adds Lonely Planet Guides to Its Roster. Advertisement While travel trend reports continue to predict the death of the printed guidebook, Lonely Planet seems to have found a way to keep its popular printed guides very much alive, through a more digitally friendly, and lighter, interface. A new partnership between the media company and Scribd, an e-book subscription service, will now make Lonely Planet’s guidebooks available to subscribers. Travelers who sign up will be able to access Lonely Planet’s entire collection of guides while on vacation, along with classic literature, romance novels, biographies, historical nonfiction and any other genre available on Scribd, for a monthly subscription price of $8.99. What once made backpacks around the world heavy with travel aids will be available across all iOS, Android and Kindle Fire devices, in more than 100 countries and in 80 languages. Books can also be downloaded to a device for offline access when web connections are not available. A new feature from Scribd allows users to bookmark certain pages within for easy reference. “The subscription model is an ideal way to read the books because you can read as much as you want and you don’t have to worry about paying for a book every time you want to flip through it,” Trip Adler, the chief executive of Scribd, said in an email. “In this partnership, I think Lonely Planet is particularly interested in reaching our audience of 80 million readers.” While other guidebooks are also available through the subscription, Lonely Planet’s contribution to the Scribd library makes this a valuable partnership for the e-book company as well. “There is no recommendation equal to that of a trusted editor or a world traveler whose career is researching up-to-date travel options,” Mr. Adler said. In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
U.S.   Scenes From Steelhead Drive. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Video Scenes From Steelhead Drive By Kirk Johnson | Apr. 2, 2014 | 1:14 Kirk Johnson of The New York Times recorded these scenes from the town of Oso, Wash. Related: article: Steelhead Drive Is Gone After Mudslide, Along With Many Lives Lived on It article: Landslide’s Debris Hampers a Search for Remains Show More PlaylistUp Next in Video Next → Op-Docs: Season 5 9:23 I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked   Video1:08 Hitting all the Right Notes Op-Docs: Season 5 13:33 Manufacturing China’s Future Op-Docs: Season 5 6:05 Fashion vs. Art   Video0:56 Excerpt: ‘The Father’   Video0:33 Excerpt: ‘Exit Strategy’ Op-Docs: Season 5 7:19 A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race   Video1:58 Excerpt: ‘Antlia Pneumatica’   News Clips: Europe1:20 Officials React to Panama Papers   News Clips: Europe3:47 Mossack Fonseca on Data Leak © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Business   Criminal Inquiry Said to Be Opened on Citigroup. Advertisement   Federal authorities have opened a criminal investigation into a recent $400 million fraud involving Citigroup’s Mexican unit, according to people briefed on the matter, one of a handful of government inquiries looming over the giant bank. The investigation, overseen by the F.B.I. and prosecutors from the United States attorney’s office in Manhattan, is focusing in part on whether holes in the bank’s internal controls contributed to the fraud in Mexico. The question for investigators is whether Citigroup — as other banks have been accused of doing in the context of money laundering — ignored warning signs. The bank, which also faces a parallel civil investigation from the Securities and Exchange Commission’s enforcement unit, hired the law firm Shearman & Sterling to lead an internal inquiry into the fraud, said the people briefed on the matter, who spoke only on the condition of anonymity. At a meeting last month, the bank’s lawyers presented their initial findings to the government. The bloom of activity stems from Citigroup’s disclosure in February that its Mexican unit, Banamex, uncovered an apparent fraud involving an oil services company. The disclosure — that at least one Banamex employee processed falsified documents that helped the oil services company obtain a loan that cannot be repaid — generated immediate interest from federal authorities. But the decision by the F.B.I. and prosecutors to open a formal investigation, a move that has not been previously reported, has now officially drawn a faraway crime to Citigroup’s doorstep. The case represents another setback for the bank, which has also come under fire from regulators in Washington. Last week, the Federal Reserve rejected Citigroup’s plan to increase its dividend. The rebuke embarrassed the bank and raised questions about the reliability of its financial projections. The scrutiny coincides with Citigroup’s recent announcement that it faces a separate, and perhaps more threatening, investigation from federal prosecutors in Massachusetts. The prosecutors, who have sent subpoenas to Citigroup, are examining whether the bank lacked proper safeguards against clients laundering money. Citigroup, the people briefed on the matter said, has hired the law firm Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison to handle that case, which stems from the prosecutors’ suspicion that drug money was flowing through an account at the bank. Together, the developments threaten to complicate Citigroup’s relationships with government authorities, who had previously lost faith in the bank after it required two bailouts and came to epitomize Wall Street’s role in the financial crisis. While Citigroup’s chief executive, Michael L. Corbat, has repaired ties to regulators using a blend of contrition and self-accountability, the latest investigations could test those improvements. Still, the government scrutiny could be short-lived. Citigroup has not been accused of wrongdoing, and prosecutors might ultimately close the cases without extracting fines or imposing charges, which typically come only if wrongdoing was pervasive. And Citigroup is sharing the spotlight with banks like JPMorgan Chase, whose missteps, including a $6.2 billion trading loss in London, make its own problems seem arguably manageable by comparison. A Citigroup spokesman declined to comment. In a letter to shareholders last month, Mr. Corbat said: “We continue to investigate what took place in Mexico and are working to identify any areas where we need to strengthen our controls through stronger oversight or improved processes.” Spokesmen for both the F.B.I. in New York and Preet Bharara, the United States attorney in Manhattan, declined to comment. In a speech this week, however, Mr. Bharara emphasized the importance of investigating not only individual bankers and traders, but also the Wall Street firms that employ them. “Effective deterrence sometimes requires that institutions be punished, because sometimes it is the institution that has failed,” he told a conference of Wall Street lawyers. Preet Bharara, the federal prosecutor in Manhattan, has issued a warning to Wall Street about compliance, reports Kate Kelly of CNBC. At first glance, Citigroup appeared to be the victim of the fraud involving the Mexican oil services company Oceanografía. After all, the bank lost millions of dollars. But the F.B.I. and prosecutors, the people briefed on the matter said, are questioning whether Citigroup was equal parts victim and enabler. For one, it is unclear whether the wrongdoing at Citigroup was actually limited to a single Banamex employee, as early reports indicated. The authorities, according to the people briefed on the matter, are investigating whether the scheme involved co-conspirators at the bank’s offices in the United States. Prosecutors also tend to weigh whether an episode was isolated or illustrative of a broader problem. In the case of Banamex, the fraud was the latest in a series of questionable loan deals for the Citigroup unit. Bank employees say that Banamex, which accounts for 13 percent of Citigroup’s revenue, undergoes the same level of oversight as any other business arm. But others inside the bank say that the Mexican unit, a subsidiary of Citigroup’s holding company, has always had some degree of autonomy from New York. And even if Oceanografía defrauded Citigroup — and the fraud was indeed an “isolated incident,” as the bank has said — Citigroup may have lacked the proper controls to thwart the scheme at its inception. Under the law, banks must report suspicious activity and set up compliance programs to prevent money laundering and other illegal activity. When banks fail to do so, it could amount to a criminal or civil violation, depending on the severity of the problem. For a breakdown to be criminal, prosecutors would typically need to show that the bank willfully ignored warning signs of the fraud. With the focus on bank controls, the Banamex case and the separate money-laundering investigation in Massachusetts echo other recent Wall Street investigations. Prosecutors have claimed that lax controls enabled drug trafficking, money laundering and business deals with blacklisted countries like Iran and Cuba. In 2012, federal prosecutors penalized HSBC for turning a “blind eye to money laundering that was happening right before their very eyes.” The HSBC case, defense lawyers say, provided a template for prosecutors to go after not just a bank’s actions, but its inaction as well. In January, Mr. Bharara’s office announced a criminal case that extracted a $1.7 billion penalty from JPMorgan Chase over accusations that it ignored warning signs about Bernard L. Madoff’s Ponzi scheme. Mr. Madoff’s firm used JPMorgan as its primary bank for more than two decades. At Banamex, Oceanografía became one of the bank’s largest corporate clients. Under a short-term lending arrangement, Banamex would advance money to Oceanografía, whose existence hinged almost entirely on government contracts. Banamex issued the loans with the understanding that Oceanografía had received contracts from the state-owned oil monopoly Pemex. Once the work was completed, Pemex would repay the loan to Banamex. But this year, Mexican authorities suspended Oceanografía from obtaining additional government contracts for several months. Shortly after, Banamex discovered a fraud. There was valid documentation for $185 million of work, Citigroup said, but Banamex had advanced Oceanografía a total of $585 million. Some of Oceanografía’s invoices, Citigroup said, “were falsified to represent that Pemex had approved them. A Banamex employee processed them.” Mexican authorities, including lawmakers and the attorney general, have directed their own investigations into the fraud. Citigroup has said it has worked with the Mexican authorities “to initiate criminal actions” that may allow it to recover some of the missing money. “We are exploring every available option to recoup the misappropriated funds and we will be relentless in pursuing their recovery,” Mr. Corbat said in a memo to employees. “All will be held equally responsible and we will make sure that the punishment sends a crystal-clear message about the consequences of such actions.” Jessica Silver-Greenberg contributed reporting. A version of this article appears in print on 04/03/2014, on page A1 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Crime Inquiry Said to Open on Citigroup. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   Image of the Day: April 2. Advertisement India’s national elections began April 7 and will continue on nine separate dates until May 12, with results expected to be announced on May 16. The vote is the world’s largest, with 814 million eligible voters set to choose 543 members of the lower house of Parliament. The other two seats will be appointed by the president. This election is widely considered to be India’s most consequential since 1977. India Ink will be moving to the World page of The New York Times. Read more… A memorial ceremony at the Imphal War Cemetery in Manipur to honor the soldiers who died during World War II.Read more… The newly elected prime minister reaches out to the public in a blog post about his first 30 days in office.Read more… Newborns whose mothers are unable to breastfeed are given stored breast milk to protect them from potentially life-threatening infection.Read more… In the final stage of a long decline, Hindustan Motors announced in May that it would suspend production of the Ambassador, a car that was once synonymous with style and status.Read more… This report on India from the journalists of The New York Times and a pool of talented writers in India and beyond provides unbiased, authoritative reporting on the country and its place in the world. India Ink also strives to be a virtual meeting point for discussion of this complex, fast-changing democracy – its politics, economy, culture and everyday life. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Science   Walking the Talk. Advertisement   The program that brings them together, called Meet and Move, began just a few weeks ago, but “I’ve already noticed a significant boost in my spirits,” said Ms. Mariner, 55. Four years ago, she moved in with her ailing mother, now 84 and in need of a great deal of help. “I was getting tired, mentally and physically,” she said. Besides walking with other caregivers twice a week, Ms. Mariner religiously monitors the pedometer that the program provided; often she adds a 20-minute amble after work, or parks her car at the far end of the supermarket lot, aiming to record 10,000 steps a day. She has come to recognize, she said, that “I have to take better care of myself in order to take care of Mom.” Sometimes the best ideas are the simplest. El Camino Hospital in Mountain View and the Palo Alto Medical Foundation wanted to help family caregivers take a break, get some exercise and connect with others. “By focusing on caregivers, we could improve the health and well-being of seniors and at the same time deal with the tremendous caregiver burden and burnout we see in our daily practices,” said Dr. Sangeeta Kopardekar, chairwoman of geriatrics and palliative care at El Camino.  “Loneliness and social isolation are big issues for caregivers,” she added. As caregivers walk and talk on Saturday mornings or Thursday afternoons, or turn out for a salsa dance class Wednesday nights (though conversation might prove more difficult there), she hopes that “they will eventually form informal support networks.” Traditional support groups serve that purpose, too, and have been shown to reduce caregiver stress and depression. But not everyone wants to sit in a circle of chairs and share. Some might find exercise, also a potent way to relieve stress and improve health, more palatable. We are learning more about caregiver burden and its potentially pernicious effects. “Caregiver stress increases the likelihood of depression, other mental health symptoms and illness,” said Steven Zarit, a Penn State geriatric psychologist who has led research on the topic for years. Predictable breaks from caregiving, he and his team have shown, are “very important emotionally, but also at a physiological level.” A study by Mr. Zarit and his colleagues, recently published in the American Journal of Geriatric Psychiatry, is among the first to demonstrate that a helpful intervention can affect not only caregivers’ moods but their stress hormone levels. The researchers asked 151 caregivers who lived with relatives who had received a diagnosis of dementia — one of the highest-stress situations — to collect their saliva five times a day for eight days. Later analysis showed that caregivers’ levels of DHEA-S, a hormone that protects against the harmful effects of other stress hormones, were significantly higher on days after their relatives attended an adult day program. In nightly phone interviews, the caregivers also scored higher on scales measuring positive mood on those days, reporting greater cheerfulness, calm and closeness to others. Might other kinds of interventions — like regularly walking with other caregivers — have similar physiological effects? It’s hard to say, and the Meet and Move program isn’t designed to find out. But early participants — 32 have enrolled to date, most women, most caring for a spouse or parent — seem enthusiastic. “Sometimes you just need to talk about it,” said Margaret Hsieh, 72, who shares the care of a demanding 98-year-old mother. “It was a godsend to get to know other people in a similar situation. And it gets us out.” To help keep participants active and connected, Meet and Move provided water bottles and pedometers to those who signed up and asked them to log their physical activity and social interactions. A facilitator stays in touch by email, sometimes forwarding articles of interest. Every four weeks, those who send in their logs receive a $25 Visa or MasterCard gift card. In parts of the country with less-enviable weather, of course, people starting such efforts would have to do some of their walking in malls, or other climate-controlled places with less sunshine and fewer hummingbirds. I could also envision a more targeted reward for participating: an hour of home care. Meet and Move or similar programs could negotiate volume discounts with agencies, then provide caregivers with that rare thing, an hour off the clock. Though Ms. Mariner, I should add, sounded quite pleased about her gift card. She works nearly full time, in addition to taking care of her mother, and she knew just how she planned to use it. “I’m going to get a massage,” she said. Paula Span is the author of “When the Time Comes: Families With Aging Parents Share Their Struggles and Solutions.” The blog is ending, but our coverage of caregiving and aging is not. The New Old Age will run as a twice-monthly column by Paula Span on nytimes.com and frequently in Science Times. Read more… At many nursing homes and assisted living places, a resident’s passing may be hardly noted.Read more… Circumstances had changed, and all these documents needed to change, too. Read more… Lifestyle modification prevents Type 2 diabetes even more effectively in the elderly than in middle-aged patients.Read more… Julianne Moore gives a wonderful performance in “Still Alice,” but the film skirts the truth about dementia.Read more… Thanks to the marvels of medical science, our parents are living longer than ever before. Most will spend years dependent on others for the most basic needs. That burden falls to their baby boomer children. The New Old Age blog explored this unprecedented intergenerational challenge. Paula Span will continue to write New Old Age columns twice monthly at nytimes.com/health and the conversation will continue on Twitter (@paula_span) and Facebook. A few medical institutions have opened their doors to patients’ own dogs and cats. Scheduling and medication errors plague patients with Parkinson's. Dementia doesn't respect public stature. Is there life after caregiving, and if so what it is like? Comprehensive reference and special reports about diseases, conditions, tests, injuries and surgeries. Useful information, tools, and links to organizations around the Web. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   The Rail Content Is On the Move. Advertisement Thank you for visiting The Rail. This blog’s regular features, including live race analysis and news and notes from Joe Drape, Melissa Hoppert and others, can now be found on the sports home page. This change in presentation will provide readers with a single destination for all important and timely horse racing news. No changes have been made in the reporting, editing and other resources devoted to our horse racing coverage. Thank you for reading. To receive horse racing news via Twitter, follow Joe Drape (@joedrape), Melissa Hoppert (@MHoppertNYT) and @NYTSports. The Rail, with Joe Drape, The New York Times's horse racing reporter, and others from the racing community, gives readers a look at the race for the Triple Crown. From the paddock to the starting gate to the winner's circle, The Rail provides an insider's view of the action. This blog’s regular features, including live race analysis and news and notes from Joe Drape, Melissa Hoppert and others, can now be found on the sports home page. Read more… For the first time in the 36-year history of New York State’s iconic “I Love NY” tourism campaign, a thrilling action image of horse racing is featured on the cover of the state’s annual summer travel guide – its signature promotional publication. Read more… After six Triple Crown seasons, how The Rail’s contributors have fared with their selections.Read more… For John Nerud, even at 100 years old, the memories of Saratoga remain remarkably fresh and vivid, slices of an amazing life. And as Saratoga prepares to celebrate its 150th anniversary as one of America’s most treasured thoroughbred racing landscapes, Nerud is eager to join the lovefest.Read more… Paynter is scheduled to make his first start Friday since his spectacular Grade I victory in the Haskell Stakes in July. Since that time, Paynter sustained a life-threatening bout of colitis, as well as laminitis. It is remarkable that he is alive, let alone racing again.Read more… Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Technology   Amazon Unveils Fire TV. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Video Amazon Unveils Fire TV Apr. 2, 2014 | 0:45 Amazon’s vice president for Kindle, Peter Larsen, announced the set-top device as part of its plans to merge shopping and entertainment. Related: article: With Fire TV, Amazon Seeks a Beachhead in the Living Room Show More PlaylistUp Next in Video Next → Op-Docs: Season 5 9:23 I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked   Video1:08 Hitting all the Right Notes Op-Docs: Season 5 13:33 Manufacturing China’s Future Op-Docs: Season 5 6:05 Fashion vs. Art   Video0:56 Excerpt: ‘The Father’   Video0:33 Excerpt: ‘Exit Strategy’ Op-Docs: Season 5 7:19 A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race   Video1:58 Excerpt: ‘Antlia Pneumatica’   News Clips: Europe1:20 Officials React to Panama Papers   News Clips: Europe3:47 Mossack Fonseca on Data Leak © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Travel   A Cruise Line Adds Women to the Dancer Pool. Advertisement Gender equality hits the high seas as Crystal Cruises will add women to the until-now all male host pool, dancers hired to cha-cha, waltz and jitterbug with solo or partnerless cruisers on three coming trans-Atlantic itineraries. Beginning with a Lisbon-to-Miami “Ballroom at Sea” cruise departing Oct. 5 aboard the 922-passenger Crystal Symphony, two female dancers will join eight male dancers during evening dance sets, live orchestra performances and dance classes. The ballroom itineraries will be repeated twice in 2015, with departures June 12 and Dec. 11. The line routinely carries four hosts per cruise who cater to the 5 to 20 percent of passengers traveling solo on Crystal. Company officials say typically more women than men seek dance partners, but when they tested hostesses on a recent cruise, enthusiasm increased. “Similar to tennis players who play better when they play with a pro, dance enthusiasts are inspired by partnering with experts who really know the steps and the more advanced nuances,” Bret Bullock, vice president of entertainment for Crystal, said in a press release. Fares start at $2,595 per person. A version of this article appears in print on 04/13/2014, on page TR3 of the NewYork edition with the headline: May I Have This Dance, Sir?. In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
U.S.   Obama Discusses Fort Hood Shooting. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Video Obama Discusses Fort Hood Shooting Apr. 3, 2014 | 0:58 President Obama discussed the shooting at Fort Hood on Wednesday. Show More PlaylistUp Next in Video Next → Op-Docs: Season 5 9:23 I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked   Video1:08 Hitting all the Right Notes Op-Docs: Season 5 13:33 Manufacturing China’s Future Op-Docs: Season 5 6:05 Fashion vs. Art   Video0:56 Excerpt: ‘The Father’   Video0:33 Excerpt: ‘Exit Strategy’ Op-Docs: Season 5 7:19 A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race   Video1:58 Excerpt: ‘Antlia Pneumatica’   News Clips: Europe1:20 Officials React to Panama Papers   News Clips: Europe3:47 Mossack Fonseca on Data Leak © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Books   Wisconsin, a Love Song. Channels & Shows Home Search Culture Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Culture Wisconsin, a Love Song By Brent McDonald | Apr. 3, 2014 | 3:03 Nickolas Butler, author of “Shotgun Lovesongs,” discusses writing, Wisconsin winters and the stirring influence of Bon Iver. Related: article: Friends Return, but Can’t Go Back article: Reunion Tour Show More PlaylistUp Next in Culture Next → This Week’s Movies Culture3:28 This Week’s Movies | May 6, 2016   U.S.0:22 Obama, Dancing With the Star (Wars)   Opinion6:58 Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics   Fashion1:13 Red Carpet Arrivals at the Met Ball   Culture3:07 Tony Nominations Are Announced This Week’s Movies Culture3:28 This Week’s Movies | April 29, 2016 Anatomy of a Scene Culture2:41 Anatomy | ‘The Man Who Knew Infinity’   Europe0:29 Big Ben to Be Silenced   Food1:12 Tomatillo Pineapple Salsa | Taste Makers   Taste Makers6:01 Nigerian Food, Crash-and-Burn Style | Taste Makers © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Business   Sol Mates. Advertisement By Martin Ashwood-Smith and Joe Krozel Apr 4, 2014 The New York Times Crossword is available through subscription only. FRIDAY’S PUZZLE — Ah, double quad stacks in a puzzle that I, myself, was divided on. How appropriate. Don’t panic, Martin Ashwood-Smith and Joe Krozel: I liked your puzzle for the most part, but I’m going to use it to make a point. A philosophical discussion between constructors has gone on for longer than I can remember about what quad stacks do to the fill in a puzzle and whether it’s worth it in terms of the relative enjoyment that a solver gets from working a grid with words (or semi-words that are impossible to clue well) like TERNES, TENTER, A MAN, ENCE and STER in it. When you are gingerly trying to stack 15-letter Across entries like you’re building a house of cards, sometimes bad things happen to the Down fill. A constructor gets left with very few choices, unless he or she is willing to rip the whole thing out and start again. The idea that if something is in the dictionary it is a legitimate entry only gets you so far before it becomes apparent that you’ve forgotten the audience for whom you are making the puzzle. Here’s the thing: when someone sits down to solve a crossword puzzle, they’re looking to have a good time. It’s a game. No doubt, it’s a devilishly tricky high wire act on the part of the constructor and the editor, trying to push the envelope in terms of the format, making a Friday puzzle difficult enough to challenge the diehards, and still have something for everyone in it. But if you feel let down by the fill more than once or twice in a puzzle, then you just have to ask out loud if it’s worth it. Who is this puzzle for? Hang on tight. This is where the whiplash comes in. My personal opinion is that there is a place for such puzzles in the rotation once in a while, especially when you have some great entries like ADELAIDE’S LAMENT, SATELLITE STATES, SACRIFICIAL LAMB, AM I GLAD TO SEE YOU, SLUG IT OUT and ANTS IN ONE’S PANTS. There are people who don’t even like seeing the pronoun ONE’S in an entry phrase, but I don’t mind it if it’s in a fun entry. Enjoyment of puzzle fill is a very subjective thing. And, besides the fun entries above, there is some very interesting cluing in this puzzle. Even though the Sea of AZOV has appeared many times in The New York Times crossword puzzle perhaps it will resonate all the more given the world news recently about Crimea. Some of you may have filled in MILLI wondering why it was not clued to the defunct musical duo MILLI Vanilli. I would speculate that a clue like that would have been too easy for a Friday puzzle. And Clue of the Day for me was 48 Across’s “Sol mates?” for LAS. Let’s see what Mr. Ashwood-Smith and Mr. Krozel have to say: Martin Ashwood-Smith: I like to think of today’s double-quad-stack puzzle as having a long-lost triple stack little brother from 1996. Do you see any similarity between the grids? In reality, any similarity is just a coincidence, but an intriguing one, nonetheless. When I started constructing the top stacks for this puzzle, I though it would be fun to use a 15-letter word/phrase that is commonly seen at the very bottom of stacked puzzles: SATELLITE STATES, and placing it at 1-Across, at the very top. In this position, its abundance of low-point (useful word-ending) Scrabble letters, normally an advantage, would be all but useless. After I finished what looked like a promising top stack, I then contacted my friend Joe Krozel to see if he had an “orphan” stack or two that we could meld into a finished puzzle. By luck he did. Our first draft had 10-D SLUG, and FAIN in its mirror position. Luckily we were able to open the grid up more (and reduce the word count to 66) by extending both entries to SLUG IT OUT and SAMMY FAIN. We got lucky that day! Joe Krozel: When constructing my first dual quad-stack puzzle around 2010, I assembled a library of half-filled grids containing a single quad stack at the top or the bottom. So I had numerous potential matches when Martin presented his upper quad stack to me; I just had to search my library for the closest matches, then Martin and I would move squares around to unite the two puzzle halves with the proper symmetry. I started the lower quad stack with the lively seed entry AM I GLAD TO SEE YOU. The vowels at the front and back ensured that 55-D and 60-D would be words rather than some all-consonant letter strings like SSSS or SSTS. It’s been a brutal winter here on the East Coast, and a person could and did develop a cold. Adelaide is talking about her frustration with Nathan Detroit, but let’s listen to her version: Your thoughts? Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. David Kahn puts us through the wringer.Read more… Emily Cox and Henry Rathvon offer us a challenging cryptic crossword puzzle.Read more… A place for solvers to discuss and ask questions about the “A Little Variety” suite of puzzles.Read more… Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   Image of the Day: April 3. Advertisement India’s national elections began April 7 and will continue on nine separate dates until May 12, with results expected to be announced on May 16. The vote is the world’s largest, with 814 million eligible voters set to choose 543 members of the lower house of Parliament. The other two seats will be appointed by the president. This election is widely considered to be India’s most consequential since 1977. India Ink will be moving to the World page of The New York Times. Read more… A memorial ceremony at the Imphal War Cemetery in Manipur to honor the soldiers who died during World War II.Read more… The newly elected prime minister reaches out to the public in a blog post about his first 30 days in office.Read more… Newborns whose mothers are unable to breastfeed are given stored breast milk to protect them from potentially life-threatening infection.Read more… In the final stage of a long decline, Hindustan Motors announced in May that it would suspend production of the Ambassador, a car that was once synonymous with style and status.Read more… This report on India from the journalists of The New York Times and a pool of talented writers in India and beyond provides unbiased, authoritative reporting on the country and its place in the world. India Ink also strives to be a virtual meeting point for discussion of this complex, fast-changing democracy – its politics, economy, culture and everyday life. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Home   Stone Furnishings: Petrified, in a Good Way. Advertisement Advertisement By TIM McKEOUGHAPRIL 2, 2014 Gregory Buntain and Ian Collings, partners in the Brooklyn design firm Fort Standard, love materials with a sense of permanence and age: thick white oak, like the wood they use for the oversize legs on their Column tables, for instance, or the rough cast-bronze they chose for their chunky Sprue candelabra. But one of their favorite materials is stone, which they use to make trivets, dining tables, even light fixtures. “We like the idea of taking something that’s been around for centuries,” Mr. Buntain, 30, said, “and trying to do something new with it.” Mr. Collings, 28, added: “It’s like an extension of the concept of time. It’s also a raw material that, when incorporated into an object you interact with, has a sensual quality.” Sure, stone is among the world’s oldest building materials, but designers are still finding new ways to use it. At the Future Perfect in NoHo, the pair found a good example: the Onyx Light table lamp by Michael Anastassiades. Admiring the translucency of the onyx, Mr. Buntain said, “The stone selection is unusual, and the colors are beautiful.” Mr. Collings, who was already a fan of the designer’s work, admired the way the interior of the lamp had been carved out to hold a bulb. “He’s a master of understanding the capabilities of material and craft,” he said, “and marrying it with the highest technology,” when it comes to manufacturing. Advertisement At Matter in SoHo they found a light fixture that used stone in a different way: the Helix Long suspension lamp by Bec Brittain, which had zigzagging LED tubes around a central brass support stabilized by a piece of black marble. “It’s very graphic,” Mr. Collings said. “It’s as though she was drawing with light.” Some stone, of course, requires only a minimal amount of processing to turn it into furniture. At the Evolution Store, the designers admired a large chunk of polished petrified wood — part of an ancient tree that had fossilized to stone — noting that it would make an appealing (if heavy) stool. As Mr. Buntain said, “It’s a nice object because it’s quiet but has an incredible history.” And its coloring, he added, made it look “almost like bone or horn.” For those in search of something even more primitive-looking, the pair suggested the Delaware Bluestone chair by Max Lamb at Johnson Trading Gallery. “It’s just a raw piece of stone,” Mr. Buntain said. “But through the simple process of cutting away, he’s created this beautiful, functional, sculptural product.”  A version of this article appears in print on April 3, 2014, on page D6 of the New York edition with the headline: Petrified, in a Good Way. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Movies   This Week’s Movies. Channels & Shows Home Search Culture Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos The ultimate film lover’s guide: The Times critics A.O. Scott, Manohla Dargis and Stephen Holden offer their picks for the week’s best movies, from blockbusters to hidden gems. Recent Episodes in This Week’s Movies This Week’s Movies Culture 3:14 This Week’s Movies | April 8, 2016 This Week’s Movies Culture 3:34 This Week’s Movies | April 1, 2016 This Week’s Movies Culture 3:20 This Week’s Movies | March 25, 2016 This Week’s Movies Culture 3:33 This Week’s Movies: March 18, 2016 This Week’s Movies Culture 3:07 This Week’s Movies | March 11, 2016 This Week’s Movies Culture 3:03 This Week’s Movies | March 4, 2016 This Week’s Movies Culture 3:15 This Week’s Movies | Feb. 26, 2016 This Week’s Movies Culture 3:19 This Week’s Movies | Feb. 19, 2016 This Week’s Movies Culture 3:11 This Week’s Movies | Feb. 12, 2016 Show more videos from This Week’s Movies Most Popular 1 Food Coconut Cluster Granola 2 U.S. Best of Obama's Correspondents' Dinner Speech 3 Opinion Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics 4 U.S. Obama Delivers Howard’s Commencement 5 Fashion & Style Bill Cunningham | Garden Party 6 U.S. Copwatch vs. Cops: After Freddie Gray 7 World The Killing of Farkhunda 8 U.S. Welfare and the Politics of Poverty 9 Multimedia/Photos Illustrated Interview | Buzz Aldrin 10 Movies This Week’s Movies | May 6, 2016 © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Science   The Hospital-Dependent Patient Sign Up for the Running Email. Advertisement Dr. Pauline Chen on medical care. “He’s back?” my colleague asked, eyes widening as she passed the patient’s room. “He’s in the hospital again?” Slender, pale and in his late 60s, the man had first been admitted nearly a year earlier with pressure in his chest so severe he had trouble breathing. When his heart stopped, doctors and nurses revived him by injecting the latest life-saving medicines into his veins and applying the newest electrical defibrillator paddles to his chest. Within minutes, the cardiology team arrived, but when the blockage in the arteries of his heart proved too extensive for even their state-of-the-art techniques and equipment, they handed him off to the waiting surgeons. The surgeons, in turn, cooled down his heart until it stopped beating, sewed in bypass conduits with threads finer than human hairs, restarted the heart with a few well-placed jolts of electricity and then transferred the patient to the cutting-edge intensive care unit to recover. The man survived. Sort of. Weakened by this string of emergencies, he required a breathing machine for several days. When excess fluid in his lungs caused shortness of breath, he needed intravenous diuretics. When his heart began beating erratically, he was obliged to take a finely tuned cocktail of heart medications. And when his chest wound became infected, he had to return to the operating room. Finally, after nearly two months in the hospital, he was discharged to a skilled nursing center. But then a urinary tract infection made him dizzy and confused, and he went right back to the hospital, beginning a cycle of discharge and re-admittance that would persist for almost a year. To many of us who had cared for the man, it seemed as if he had spent more days in the hospital than out. “What kind of life is that?” my colleague asked as we stood in the hallway and watched the man’s wife help him once again put on his hospital gown and pack away his street clothes. “You’ve got to wonder,” she whispered, “did we really do him a favor when we ‘saved’ him?” I was reminded of the frail man and the many patients like him whom I have known when I read a recent Perspective piece in The New England Journal of Medicine titled “The Hospital-Dependent Patient.” Over the last 30 years, American hospitals have become a showcase of medical progress, saving lives that not long ago would have been lost. “Rapid response teams,” drilled in precision teamwork and the latest techniques of critical care, have become commonplace. Cardiac and respiratory monitors, once found only in intensive care units, are now standard equipment on most wards and even in many patient rooms. CAT scanners and M.R.I. machines, once rare, have become de rigueur, with some hospitals boasting duplicates and even triplicates. But up to one-fifth of patients treated with these new medical advances and then deemed well enough to leave the hospital end up being re-admitted within 30 days of their discharge, at considerable cost. Insurers and third-party payers have begun penalizing health care systems for these quick re-admissions; and hospitals, in response, have begun significant efforts to improve the transition from hospital to home, creating clinics that remain open beyond usual working hours and marshaling teams of care coordinators, post-discharge pharmacists and “care transition coaches.” The problem persists, though, because our spectacular advances in medical science have led to a growing population of patients who are “hospital-dependent,” according to the authors of the Perspectives article. Hospital-dependent patients are those who, a generation ago, were doomed to die. Now they are being saved. But they are not like the so-called hot spotters, a group of patients more commonly associated with frequent re-admissions who return to the hospital because of inadequate follow-up care, failure to take prescriptions correctly or difficult socioeconomic circumstances. Instead, hospital-dependent patients come back because they are so fragile, their grasp on health so tenuous, that they easily “decompensate,” or deteriorate under stress, when not in the hospital. Medical advances can snatch them from the clutches of death, but not necessarily free them from dependence on near-constant high-tech monitoring and treatments. “They are like a house of cards,” said Dr. David B. Reuben, lead author of the article and chief of the division of geriatrics at the Geffen School of Medicine at the University of California, Los Angeles. “When one thing goes wrong, they collapse.” Not surprisingly, hospital-dependent patients feel more secure and are happier in the hospital than at home. While clinicians and even family members may judge theirs a diminished existence, these patients find their quality of life acceptable, relishing their time with friends and family or engaged in passive hobbies like watching sports or reading the newspaper, albeit in the hospital. Over time, however, their recurring presence can result in conflicted feelings among those who were responsible for saving them in the first place. Some clinicians even begin to resent their obligation to continue administering resource-intensive care. “Physicians are socialized to cure patients, then move on,” Dr. Reuben observed. “They want to treat patients, not adopt them.” Dr. Reuben and his co-author offer potential solutions, such as specialized wards or facilities that would be more intensive than skilled nursing homes yet less costly than a hospital. But they are quick to add that more research must also be done. Their concept of “hospital-dependency” is a new one, so no research is available to help identify patients at risk of becoming hospital-dependent, estimate the percentage of early re-admissions they are responsible for or calculate the costs they incur. Even without studies, it’s clear that the numbers of these patients are increasing. With every triumphant medical advance, there are patients who are cured but who remain too fragile to live beyond the immediate reach of the technology that saved them. Until we begin making different decisions regarding how we allocate our resources, their presence will be a constant reminder of which medical research and health care we consider worthy and which we do not. Your health questions answered by Times journalists and experts. Your Questions | All » Get Well's Running email for practical tips, expert advice, exclusive content and a bit of motivation delivered to your inbox every week to help you on your running journey. Coming soon. How much do you know about the amazing things that go on in your gut? Take our quiz to find out about the creepy, crawly critters living in your home. What surface is the most friendly to the flu virus? Where’s the best place to stand when you’re talking to a sick person? How does sleep affect health, relationships and well-being? The “Reading the Mind in the Eyes Test” measures ability to understand others’ emotional states. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   Player Ratings: United States (2) vs. Mexico (2). Advertisement Advertisement By BRIAN SCIARETTAAPRIL 3, 2014 GLENDALE, Ariz. — In its final exhibition game before the opening of next month’s World Cup training camp, the United States national team played to a 2-2 draw with arch-rival Mexico on Wednesday night before a pro-Mexico crowd at the University of Phoenix Stadium. Impressions of the game depended on which half one watched: Jurgen Klinsmann’s American team dominated the first half with a dominant display in a new 4-4-2 diamond-midfield formation. After the break, however, the United States allowed Mexico back into the game with a series of defensive mistakes. While Klinsmann was most likely disappointed with the tie, his team looked sharper than it has at any time since World Cup qualifying ended. Most important, the game offered him clear lessons about his players heading into World Cup camp. Michael Bradley is clearly the most important player on the roster, and when he is playing well the United States is strong offensively and defensively. Kyle Beckerman also showed himself to be a solid complement for Bradley in central midfield, raising his game and making a case for significant minutes in Brazil. While all eyes were on the teenager Julian Green, who made his debut after halftime, DeAndre Yedlin turned in a strong outing as a second-half substitute at right back. Michael Parkhurst, filling in for an absent DaMarcus Beasley, had a strong game at left back, a position that has traditionally been a weakness for the United States. The ratings, from 1 (diabolical) to 10 (world class): Starting Lineup Nick Rimando: The Real Salt Lake goalkeeper and longtime national team No. 3 was forced into action in the second half with a big save in the 53rd minute to maintain a 2-1 lead. In the 86th minute, his save on Miguel Ponce helped preserve the tie. There was little he could do to prevent either goal. Rating: 7.0 Advertisement Tony Beltran: A late addition to the team this week, Beltran struggled early at right back before settling in. Mexico attacked primarily down his side of the field and, aside from a few shaky moments, Beltran held firm. His highlight came in the 28th minute, when his cross found Bradley, who sent it on to Chris Wondolowski for the second American goal. Rating: 6.0 Omar Gonzalez: After a relatively solid first half, Gonzalez fell apart in the second. Klinsmann’s first-choice pairing in central defense is not yet clear, but Gonzalez did not help his case against Mexico. Rating: 4.0 Advertisement Matt Besler: An outing that should leave the Sporting Kansas City defender satisfied. In the 17th minute he had a tackle that prevented a good chance. He was not at fault for conceding any significant Mexican scoring opportunities and was substituted out of the game with his team leading, 2-1. Rating: 6.0 Michael Parkhurst: For a defender who prefers to play centrally or on the right, Parkhurst did not look out of place at left back. Mexico rarely attacked down his side, and while he didn’t moved forward into the U.S. offense either, his defensive positioning was good. He could have played his way onto the World Cup roster with his performance. Rating: 7.0 Kyle Beckerman: From the opening whistle, Beckerman was terrific and had perhaps his best game for the national team. Cemented his place in the World Cup team. His passing was accurate and helped the team keep possession, and his defense was apparent in that Mexico had little success attacking up the middle. Perhaps the most important takeaway was that there is clear chemistry with Beckerman and Michael Bradley in the midfield, and any pairing that allows Bradley to flourish has to be a clear consideration in Brazil. Rating: 7.0 Brad Davis: With few left footed midfielders available for Klinsmann, it is clear why Davis was given the chance to show his value. His lack of speed hurt him when the Americans tried to play quickly, but he is lethal on crosses and set pieces. His free kick in the 17th minute set up a great opportunity for Omar Gonzalez and forced Moises Munoz to make a nice save. Rating: 5.0 Michael Bradley: Dominant in the first half, when he was by far the best player on the field. He scored the opening goal and assisted on the second. Nearly every dangerous play went through Bradley. In the second half, after Mexico raised its level of play, Bradley’s defense kept the United States in the game. Rating: 8.5 and Man of the Match Graham Zusi: Strong in the first half when the United States was dominating, but began to tire after halftime and was substituted in the 60th minute. In the four-man midfield, Zusi covered a lot of ground and his passing was precise: his corner kick to Bradley at the back post set up a tap-in first goal. Rating: 6.0 Advertisement Clint Dempsey: Playing higher as a forward in a 4-4-2, Dempsey found himself in a new role. After struggling for most of the past six months, he had some nice moments. His best was nearly setting up Eddie Johnson for an apparent winning goal that was called back for offside. He has a way to go to return to the dominant level he was at in 2012, but relatively speaking he is on the right track. Rating: 5.5 Chris Wondolowski: On the World Cup bubble before the game, his performance — and his goal off a Bradley header in the first half — boosted his chances. He was replaced with the U.S. team up 2-1. Rating: 6.5 Substitutes Landon Donovan: It was a surprise to see Donovan, the national team’s career scoring leader, dropped from the starting lineup but he clearly was not missed in the first half. He entered into the game in the 59th minute at a time when the midfield was being overrun by Mexico but did little to help the team regain the possession advantage. Instead he tried to lead counterattacks, which were only occasionally dangerous. Rating: 5.0 Julian Green: All eyes were on Green, who was making his first appearance for the United States since switching his international affiliation from Germany last month. An 18-year-old who plays primarily for Bayern Munich’s Under-23 team, Green replaced Brad Davis on the left wing in the 59th minute. Eager to get involved on the counter at a time when Mexico was pressing, Green was aggressive but unable to create dangerous opportunities. He has talent but remains a little raw, even nervous. Rating: 4.5 Clarence Goodson: Replaced Besler at center back in the second half. Reliable when Mexico had the momentum and went on the attack, he remains in contention to start at the World Cup. Rating: 6.0 Eddie Johnson: After surprisingly losing his starting position to Wondolowski, Johnson was a bit unlucky when his 84th-minute goal was disallowed on a close offside call. Aside from that opportunity, he struggled and was not able to combine well in the attack. With Wondolowski having another strong game, it will be a close call for Johnson, once seen as a near lock for the World Cup, to make the team heading to Brazil. Rating: 4.5 Maurice Edu: In his first appearance with the United States in more than a year, Edu came on in the 72nd minute for Kyle Beckerman. His passing was sharp but he was not quite as effective as Beckerman was in working with Bradley. Probably did enough to earn another look in May. Rating: 6.0 DeAndre Yedlin: Replacing the defensively solid Beltran at right back, Yedlin, 20, offered a more attacking dynamic with a series of dangerous runs. Most important for Klinsmann, he did not suffer many defensive lapses. Another option heading into May’s World Cup camp. Rating: 6.5 Go to Home Page »
Travel   A Hotel Suite With a Museum’s Touch. Advertisement Guests staying in the Made in the USA Suite at the Park Hyatt Washington will be surrounded by art and design inspired by the Phillips Collection’s newest exhibit, “Made in the USA: American Masters from the Phillips Collection, 1850-1970,” featuring American art, design and furnishings. The walls of the suite hold five giclée reproductions of the museum’s notable works, including Marsden Hartley’s “Off the Banks at Night”; Arthur G. Dove’s “Red Sun”; and Bradley Walker Tomlin’s “No. 9.” Also placed throughout the suite is a collection of handcrafted items from the Phillips Collection’s Museum Shop, including a leather schoolboy satchel sewn by Billykirk in Pennsylvania; a spiral wrap bowl hand-blown by Peàn Doubulyu Glass in Rhode Island; a retro desktop mobile created by Joel Hotchkiss in Massachusetts; and stackable wooden blocks designed by Invisible Creature in Washington State. Guests also can peruse the in-room Phillips exhibit catalog while seated in a Windsor-style timber rocking chair from Vermont furniture maker Timothy Clark. The Made in the USA Suite, available through Aug. 31, starts at $399 and also includes two tickets to view the Phillips exhibit, a subscription to the Phillips Collection Magazine and breakfast for two at the Blue Duck Tavern. For each room night sold, Park Hyatt Washington will make a $10 donation to the Phillips Collection’s Art Links to Literacy Museum-School Program. In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
U.S.   Officials on Base Shooting. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Video Officials on Base Shooting Apr. 3, 2014 | 1:11 The secretary of the Army, John M. McHugh, and the White House press secretary, Jay Carney, provided some detail about the soldier accused of killing three people at Fort Hood on Wednesday. Related: article: Fort Hood Gunman Was Being Treated for Depression Show More PlaylistUp Next in Video Next → Op-Docs: Season 5 9:23 I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked   Video1:08 Hitting all the Right Notes Op-Docs: Season 5 13:33 Manufacturing China’s Future Op-Docs: Season 5 6:05 Fashion vs. Art   Video0:56 Excerpt: ‘The Father’   Video0:33 Excerpt: ‘Exit Strategy’ Op-Docs: Season 5 7:19 A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race   Video1:58 Excerpt: ‘Antlia Pneumatica’   News Clips: Europe1:20 Officials React to Panama Papers   News Clips: Europe3:47 Mossack Fonseca on Data Leak © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Business   Hand-to-Hand Coordination. Advertisement By Ashton Anderson and James Mulhern Apr 5, 2014 The New York Times Crossword is available through subscription only. SATURDAY’S PUZZLE — I’ve never had a crossword puzzle make me think of the actor Keanu Reeves right off the bat, but that’s exactly what Ashton Anderson’s and James Mulhern’s grid did for me. The WHOA at 1 Across, made even more Keanu-y by the “Bill and Ted’s Excellent Adventure” clue “That’s crazy, dude!” got Mr. Reeves stuck in my head while I tackled the northwest corner. This cracklingly fresh puzzle has a whopping 14 new entries, although AMBERS has not been seen since before Will Shortz took over and refers, apparently, to ale and not to hair, as I wrote about earlier. Now that I’ve been schooled about blonde and AMBER(S) ale, that’s a very clever and tricky clue. My apologies for not understanding it. Separate and apart from AMBERS, though, I really liked LEGALIZE IT (just for the daringness of the entry/clue pairing alone) which hilariously crosses REEFER, MAKE BANK, PRIMAL URGE (even if I don’t quite get the clue), HABAÑERO, I DO BELIEVE, FIONA APPLE, SEX SYMBOL (where are the male SEX SYMBOLS in the puzzles? I’m lodging a formal complaint here), SHE SAID YES and PATTY CAKE. Clue of the Day for me was 14 Down’s “Forever in the past?” which leaves out the comma to misdirect us, but which is actually the suitably archaic and poetic ETERNE. A lot of work, this one, mostly due to some names I either didn’t remember or recognize (there is little difference to me these days), but a worthy opponent on a Saturday. Let’s hear from our constructors: Ashton Anderson: A quick intro: I’m a Ph.D student in computer science. James and I met during our undergrads at McGill University, where he first introduced me to crosswords and, later, to the idea of constructing them. I never thought I’d be a “crossword person,” but it has turned out to be a weirdly perfect combination of many things I love (language, pattern, misdirection, etc.) I think of constructing as a craft, or a minor form of art, and it makes for a great creative outlet for me. When James and I collaborate, I usually start off with the first corner (seeded with an entry from James), then pass it off to James who fills in the opposite corner (seeded with one of my entries), and we try to design the grid so that the 3rd and 4th corners can then be finished simultaneously. This is because I’m a hopeless puzzle perfectionist and love the freedom of the first corner (but my solo output is mostly a folder full of first corners), whereas James is much better at making shrewd compromises to squeeze great corners out of constrained situations — I open, he closes. I did the top half of the puzzle (seeded by LEGALIZE IT) and James did the bottom (seeded by SHE SAID YES, although I was thinking of the ecstatic phrase.) I’m especially excited about this one because it has a lot of answers that feel very “us”, like I GOT YOU, MAKE BANK, DUCHAMP, and PATTY CAKE. James Mulhern: Despite almost ruining our friendship (PEELINGS led to a heated debate), it was a blast making this puzzle. Ashton’s NE corner in particular is a beaut, with LEGALIZE IT crossing REEFER, and my favorite clue, [Drive to drink, e.g.] for the super-fun PRIMAL URGE. Speaking of cluing, our cluing method for our collaborations involves each of us writing a set of clues without talking to each other, then brainstorming as we merge them. That way, we get two perspectives — that is, assuming we don’t have the same clue … and that Ashton actually manages to finish his (3+ months to write clues is not unusual for him!) And finally, a huge thank you to Will Shortz for agreeing to run this puzzle today. I reached out to him a few weeks back about the possibility of having it in the paper on the day I propose to Kate, my one, and he graciously agreed. 58-Across will be a keepsake for life. How fun, and I hope she did, indeed, say yes. Your thoughts? Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. David Kahn puts us through the wringer.Read more… Emily Cox and Henry Rathvon offer us a challenging cryptic crossword puzzle.Read more… A place for solvers to discuss and ask questions about the “A Little Variety” suite of puzzles.Read more… Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Food   Chocolate Caramel Macarons. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Spring Recipes: Melissa Clark Chocolate Caramel Macarons By Jenny Woodward | Apr. 4, 2014 | 3:04 Melissa Clark takes the best parts of a French macaron and an American macaroon and creates a sweet sandwich cookie for Passover. Related: article: Closing the Seder With Something New Show More PlaylistUp Next in Spring Recipes: Melissa Clark ← Previous Melissa Clark Food1:44 Salmon With Anchovy Butter   Spring Recipes: Melissa Clark2:38 Shaved Vegetable Salad   Spring Recipes: Melissa Clark2:28 Braised Brisket   Spring Recipes: Melissa Clark3:44 Grilled Skirt Steak With Herbs   Spring Recipes: Melissa Clark3:22 Asparagus Soup With Ricotta Crostini   Spring Recipes: Melissa Clark3:17 Pea Salad With Creamy Cheese   Spring Recipes: Melissa Clark2:39 Scallops With Sorrel Butter   Spring Recipes: Melissa Clark2:46 Steamed Clams With Spring Herbs   Spring Recipes: Melissa Clark3:26 Pasta With Garlicky Bread Crumbs   Spring Recipes: Melissa Clark3:11 Quinoa Salad for a Crowd   Now Playing Spring Recipes: Melissa Clark3:04 Chocolate Caramel Macarons © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Foreign   We Were Just Laughing: Days With Anja Niedringhaus and Kathy Gannon. Advertisement It is heartbreaking to call friends and colleagues in Kabul on a day like this. The connection from the United States is bad and I can barely catch their words. I was just there with them all earlier this week, laughing and swapping stories with two veteran journalists, Anja Niedringhaus and Kathy Gannon of The Associated Press, longtime fellow chroniclers of events in Afghanistan. Today I woke to learn that Anja, a Pulitzer-Prize-winning photographer, had been shot dead and Kathy, a veteran foreign correspondent, was gravely wounded, fired upon by an Afghan police commander as they sat in their car. They were on a reporting trip covering the Afghan presidential election, accompanying officials distributing materials in eastern Afghanistan for Saturday’s vote. I had spent the last few days with them in Kabul, laughing a lot as we swapped election stories and journalists’ gossip. I spent several hours one afternoon with Anja watching Afghan police and specialist units rush to battle Taliban suicide attackers in a residential district in Kabul amid gunfire and grenade blasts. We met up again on Monday for lunch with the venerable American philanthropist Nancy Dupree at a friend’s restaurant. Anja bought a large embroidered bag emblazoned with a rampant Afghan lion. “I will use it riding my bike in Geneva,” she said, packing her cameras into it with a beaming smile. “We were so happy that day,” Nancy said through the crackling phone line. I had shared with them that day all the warnings I had just received from an Afghan friend, a former senior security official. He said the Taliban were planning a mass of attacks around the country for Friday. It would be a show of force, intended to signal the inevitable return to power by the Taliban after the withdrawal of American and NATO forces at the end of this year. The Taliban had made a decision not to attack campaign rallies, which had been drawing thousands of people, especially those of supporters of the three frontrunners, he said. The Taliban considered that such attacks would anger the Afghan public and cause a backlash. Their target instead would be foreigners and government officials, which would gain them publicity and scare away the international support for the Afghan government at a critical moment of transition. We had already seen a string of attacks on journalists and foreigners in Kabul in the last two weeks. But Anja and Kathy took it in stride. They knew the dangers. Kathy was one of the journalists whose work I always followed. She had been writing for more than a year about the plans of the Taliban and fellow militants in Pakistan to mount an offensive in Afghanistan and try to regain their former foothold there as Western forces withdraw. The two were heading to Khost. It was typical of their commitment to reporting on Afghanistan to choose a place far from the capital and away from the media and diplomatic bubble. Khost borders Pakistan and has been plagued with insecurity as insurgents cross from their sanctuary in Pakistan’s tribal areas to conduct attacks, yet that made it all the more important to see how the election unfolded there. Anja was excited to be going somewhere different. Kathy was going to do what she always did, see for herself the conditions on the ground and report it straight, as it was. That they were women, going to one of the most conservative tribal areas of the country, did not give them pause. It was a job that they relished and believed was important. I felt qualms in Kabul, as I never have before. Afghans repeatedly warned me to be careful. A fellow journalist was warned by a Pakistani official she knew well not to go to Kabul for the election. I counted up: 19 suicide attackers had descended on Kabul in eight days. People talked of the madrasas in Pakistan emptying as religious students were sent to stage attacks in Afghanistan. A former Western diplomat visiting Kabul described it as a Pakistani “proxy invasion” ahead of the election. It confirmed all my fears that while the Pakistani government was agreeing to a cease-fire with militants on its side of the border, it was encouraging them to head into Afghanistan to cause mayhem. I left Kabul the next day to begin a book tour in the United States. An Afghan friend told me he was glad I was leaving. For a nation that honors the custom of hospitality, and the protection of guests, the last few days have been a test of sadness. Carlotta Gall, a correspondent in Afghanistan from 2001 until last year, is the Tunis bureau chief for The New York Times and the author of “The Wrong Enemy: America in Afghanistan, 2001-2014,” published by Houghton Mifflin Harcourt on April 8. At War is a reported blog from Afghanistan, Pakistan, Iraq and other conflicts in the post-9/11 era. The New York Times's award-winning team provides insight — and answers questions — about combatants on the faultlines, and civilians caught in the middle. The New York Times has established an education fund for the children of Sultan Munadi, an Afghan journalist who was slain in Afghanistan in 2009. Learn more about him and how you can contribute here. » Marine Corps Captain Calum Rammhe, a longtime marathon runner, ran seven marathons on seven continents in seven days to raise money for a charity that supports wounded Marines and their families. It also let him reflect on why running is more than a hobby for him. Read more… A physical therapist describes the powerful bonds she formed with the wounded veterans and her fellow physical and occupational therapists at the Walter Reed Army Medical Center. Read more… A former Marine Corps officer argues that good leadership makes all the difference in smoothing the integration of women into combat units. Read more… Hundreds of letters from an Army private named Harold Grove Moss, whose tour of duty spanned Pearl Harbor to the surrender of Japan, have been transcribed and posted online by his daughter. Read more… A Vietnam-era veteran says presidential candidates should not be judged harshly just because they did not serve during that war. Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Health   The Weekly Health Quiz. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content The New York Times Health|The Weekly Health Quiz Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go http://nyti.ms/1sdQ6ZE Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Health The Weekly Health Quiz In the news: blood pressure, smoking bans and weight gain. Test your knowledge of this week’s health news. APRIL 3, 2014 Toby Bilanow/The New York Times Related Multimedia The Weekly Health Quiz MARCH 27, 2014 Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Movies   Clip: ‘Watermark’. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Video Clip: ‘Watermark’ Apr. 4, 2014 | 0:55 A scene from the documentary directed by Jennifer Baichwal and Edward Burtynsky. Show More PlaylistUp Next in Video Next → Op-Docs: Season 5 9:23 I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked   Video1:08 Hitting all the Right Notes Op-Docs: Season 5 13:33 Manufacturing China’s Future Op-Docs: Season 5 6:05 Fashion vs. Art   Video0:56 Excerpt: ‘The Father’   Video0:33 Excerpt: ‘Exit Strategy’ Op-Docs: Season 5 7:19 A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race   Video1:58 Excerpt: ‘Antlia Pneumatica’   News Clips: Europe1:20 Officials React to Panama Papers   News Clips: Europe3:47 Mossack Fonseca on Data Leak © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Science   What, Me Old?. Advertisement Twenty-five years ago, when the twin daughters of a childhood friend were 7 and I was 41, I told them that someday, when they were grown, I’d babysit for their children. “When I’m old enough to have a baby, you’ll be old as a bone,” one of the girls said. Ouch. Now they’re 32, and I’m 66. Neither woman has children, so I’m not babysitting, sad to say. Still, it never occurred to me then, or now, that 66 could be “old as a bone.’’ I don’t feel that way or look that way. (New Old Age commenters who may have seen my photo and disagree: I’m ready for you. Was it a mistake not to “fix’’ my face while there was still time? Bring it on.) So how to explain the deference of total strangers lately to what they apparently perceive to be my doddering old age?  In the space of a day, three people offered me their seats on buses. I remember doing that when I last lived here in New York, three decades ago. But when I gave my seat away back then, it was to old ladies, and the rare man who looked too frail to stand up holding onto a pole for 15 minutes. These days, I’m just fine without a seat on the bus. I thanked those who offered me theirs and stood. The next day, three residents of my building raced past me to hold open the heavy front doors. “What is their problem?” I thought. I mean, I go in and out, without assistance, many times a day — with a gigantic dog, a bag of garbage or a shopping cart. Sometimes with all three. Then, not two hours later, I went shopping at the grocery store, seven blocks from home. As I was leaving with three bags of groceries, the 20-something at the checkout counter asked if I wanted a cab. I huffed out and carried my bags home. My shoulders are just fine. It’s one thing to admire grace in others as age changes who they are. It’s another thing to accept that you are that someone. The other day, postponing jury duty by phone, which I assumed would require a long ordeal on hold, I was instead immediately connected to a person who was clearly not in a call center in Mumbai. He couldn’t have been nicer. Things seemed settled when he jolted me back to reality with a kind question. “I should have asked before we went through all this,’’ he said. “But you don’t have to serve at all if you’re 75 years or older.’’ “I want to serve,’’ I told him, trying to sound self-righteous, not indignant. “It would be my civic honor.’’ What I wanted to say is not printable in a family blog. Jane Gross is The New Old Age’s founding blogger and author of “A Bittersweet Season: Caring for Our Aging Parents — and Ourselves” (Alfred A. Knopf/Vintage). The blog is ending, but our coverage of caregiving and aging is not. The New Old Age will run as a twice-monthly column by Paula Span on nytimes.com and frequently in Science Times. Read more… At many nursing homes and assisted living places, a resident’s passing may be hardly noted.Read more… Circumstances had changed, and all these documents needed to change, too. Read more… Lifestyle modification prevents Type 2 diabetes even more effectively in the elderly than in middle-aged patients.Read more… Julianne Moore gives a wonderful performance in “Still Alice,” but the film skirts the truth about dementia.Read more… Thanks to the marvels of medical science, our parents are living longer than ever before. Most will spend years dependent on others for the most basic needs. That burden falls to their baby boomer children. The New Old Age blog explored this unprecedented intergenerational challenge. Paula Span will continue to write New Old Age columns twice monthly at nytimes.com/health and the conversation will continue on Twitter (@paula_span) and Facebook. A few medical institutions have opened their doors to patients’ own dogs and cats. Scheduling and medication errors plague patients with Parkinson's. Dementia doesn't respect public stature. Is there life after caregiving, and if so what it is like? Comprehensive reference and special reports about diseases, conditions, tests, injuries and surgeries. Useful information, tools, and links to organizations around the Web. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   New Leader for Bills. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content Skip to navigation View mobile version The New York Times Pro Football|New Leader for Bills Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go http://nyti.ms/1dWX80Z Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Supported by Pro Football | Sports Briefing New Leader for Bills By KEN BELSONAPRIL 4, 2014 Continue reading the main story Share This Page Continue reading the main story The Buffalo Bills, who have had only one owner in their existence, Ralph Wilson, were taken over Thursday by his wife, Mary, less than two weeks after his death at age 95. Team officials are working on a plan to sell the club, which began playing in 1960 as part of the American Football League, because Wilson’s heirs do not want to continue owning the franchise. A version of this brief appears in print on April 4, 2014, on page B18 of the New York edition with the headline: New Leader for Bills. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Continue reading the main story What's Next Loading... Go to Home Page » Site Index The New York Times Site Index Navigation News World U.S. Politics N.Y. Business Tech Science Health Sports Education Obituaries Today's Paper Corrections Opinion Today's Opinion Op-Ed Columnists Editorials Contributing Writers Op-Ed Contributors Opinionator Letters Sunday Review Taking Note Room for Debate Public Editor Video: Opinion Arts Today's Arts Art & Design ArtsBeat Books Dance Movies Music N.Y.C. Events Guide Television Theater Video: Arts Living Automobiles Crossword Food Education Fashion & Style Health Jobs Magazine N.Y.C. Events Guide Real Estate T Magazine Travel Weddings & Celebrations Listings & More Classifieds Tools & Services Times Topics Public Editor N.Y.C. Events Guide Blogs Multimedia Photography Video NYT Store Times Journeys Subscribe Manage My Account Subscribe Subscribe Times Insider Home Delivery Digital Subscriptions NYT Opinion Crossword Email Newsletters Alerts Gift Subscriptions Corporate Subscriptions Education Rate Mobile Applications Replica Edition International New York Times Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Travel   In Colorado, Cannabis Cup Time. Advertisement With Colorado’s recent legalization of the recreational use of marijuana, ticket sales for Denver’s fifth annual Cannabis Cup this month are expected to double, according to event organizers. The roving trade show, sponsored by High Times magazine, has already sold around 25,000 tickets to its Denver event, Dan Skye, the magazine’s editorial director and a spokesman for the show, said on the telephone. That’s almost 10,000 more than last year, Mr. Skye said, with 30,000 visitors expected in total over the weekend, April 19 and 20. In fact, the event has grown so large, organizers were prompted to change venues from the Exdo Event Center to Denver Mart, where there will be plenty of outdoor space for, well, sampling. Booths lining the outside recreation area will represent around 250 dispensaries, growers and pot shops, with lots of merchandise to be tested by those 21 and older, and those 18 and older with a medical use card. “It’s probably going to be the biggest Cannabis expo in history,” Mr. Skye said. “I just spent a week in Colorado and it was like a green gold rush. It’s our 13th event in the United States, and it keeps getting bigger every year. It’s so gratifying.” The convention will feature its usual selection of cultivation workshops and business seminars, like “The Art of Edibles” and “The Monster I Created: Has Colorado’s Over-Taxed and Over-Regulated Marijuana Industry Sold Its Soul?,” as well as the aforementioned samples from distributors and performances by the usual pro-ganja entertainers, including Snoop Lion (formerly known as Snoop Dogg), the rappers Wiz Khalifa and Mac Miller, and the band Slightly Stoopid. Discussions about the future of legalization, the use of concentrates and medical regulation are also planned. New this year is The Freedom Trail bus tour, on which attendees will visit recreational marijuana centers in Denver. “You know, pot shops,” Mr. Skye said. “There are so many people who have no experience buying over-the-counter cannabis, so that’s why we’re doing that.” There will also be a ganja yoga class, and though no smoking is allowed inside the building, it will probably be recommended that participants “come medicated, since that’s the whole point,” he said. And, of course, there are plenty of awards to be presented at the Cup, with an opening party featuring Ice Cube, the actor and hip hop artist, and the rapper Action Bronson, on April 18. Future Cups are planned in San Francisco, Seattle, Amsterdam and Los Angeles. In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
U.S.   Perry and Cruz on Base Shooting. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Video Perry and Cruz on Base Shooting Apr. 4, 2014 | 1:14 Gov. Rick Perry and Senator Ted Cruz delivered remarks after meeting with military personnel wounded Wednesday in the shooting at Fort Hood in Texas. Related: article: Dispute Over Leave Agitated Ft. Hood Soldier Before Shooting Show More PlaylistUp Next in Video Next → Op-Docs: Season 5 9:23 I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked   Video1:08 Hitting all the Right Notes Op-Docs: Season 5 13:33 Manufacturing China’s Future Op-Docs: Season 5 6:05 Fashion vs. Art   Video0:56 Excerpt: ‘The Father’   Video0:33 Excerpt: ‘Exit Strategy’ Op-Docs: Season 5 7:19 A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race   Video1:58 Excerpt: ‘Antlia Pneumatica’   News Clips: Europe1:20 Officials React to Panama Papers   News Clips: Europe3:47 Mossack Fonseca on Data Leak © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Business   At Times. Advertisement By Patrick Berry Apr 6, 2014 The New York Times Crossword is available through subscription only. SUNDAY’S PUZZLE — Sundays are the only day that The New York Times crossword puzzle runs with a title and, the title is there in part to punnily help us figure out what we’re in for when we solve. Today, the title of this puzzle by Patrick Berry is fairly literal. The phrase “at times” can be used in crossword cluing to indicate to the solver that the hint in the clue is not always true. So a “clumsy pharmacist, at times” might be a lot of things, but at times he or she would definitely be a MEDICINE DROPPER. Likewise, a COLT REVOLVER is, in reality, a gun, but today Mr. Berry has re-imagined it as a “Dressage rider, at times.” I’ve never seen a horse revolve, exactly — they certainly go in circles — but I’ll overlook that because I loved the abject silliness of the clue/entry pairing. The only one of the theme set that I had an issue with was the central ALL BETTER, which is not only not a noun phrase like the others, but also bothers me for the simple reason that someone who bets is a “bettor,” not a “better.” Maybe I’ve grown spoiled by Patrick Berry’s more outstanding work, but this one, while it made me smile at the puns, just didn’t feel like one of his better ones. There are 11 unique entries in the puzzle today (a near-whop), including seven of the nine theme entries, which is cool because the theme entries happen to be real phrases, not made-up ones. (A made-up phrase would register as unique as well, so it’s impressive when a punny entry registers as fresh.) I especially liked OYSTER CRACKERS (particularly in some New England clam “chowdah”), MEDICINE DROPPER, TRICK UP, CHICKEN TENDER (an entire food group, as far as The Boy is concerned), SNEAK UP ON and BATHROOM SLIPPERS, although I will admit to being confused between those and bedroom slippers. Apparently, BATHROOM SLIPPERS are a big thing in Japan. Clue(s) of the Day for me were “Goes to court?” for ASKS OUT, “Some hand-me-downs?” for LORE, “Current location?” for MIDSTREAM, and “Person moving against traffic?” for NARC. I also liked the MORSE code clue, which actually does say “Morse.” That’s it for another solving week. DANKE for joining me, and stay tuned for the Monday puzzle. Your thoughts? Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. David Kahn puts us through the wringer.Read more… Emily Cox and Henry Rathvon offer us a challenging cryptic crossword puzzle.Read more… A place for solvers to discuss and ask questions about the “A Little Variety” suite of puzzles.Read more… Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   Uganda: Police Raid U.S.-Financed Health Project. Advertisement Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 5, 2014 Police officers raided the offices of an American-financed project that offers services to AIDS patients, a government spokesman said Friday, in what appeared to be the first public action to enforce a new anti-homosexuality law. The Makerere University Walter Reed Project in Kampala was singled out for “training youths in homosexuality,” the spokesman, Ofwono Opondo, said Friday on Twitter. The project said Friday it was suspending its activities after a Ugandan employee was arrested and briefly detained on Thursday. The project, a partnership between a Ugandan university and the United States Military H.I.V. Research Program, opened in 2002 and its activities include H.I.V. prevention, care and treatment. Through the President’s Emergency Fund for AIDS Relief, it has been running programs across Uganda. A version of this brief appears in print on April 5, 2014, on page A7 of the New York edition with the headline: Uganda: Police Raid U.S.-Financed Health Project. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Sports   Rough Start Aside, an Elite Debut. Advertisement Advertisement Keeping Score By BENJAMIN HOFFMAN APRIL 5, 2014 Masahiro Tanaka’s adjustment period to Major League Baseball appeared to last about three innings. After performing well in spring training, compiling a 2.14 earned run average in 21 innings, Tanaka got off to a bit of a rocky start when he took the mound for the Yankees against the Blue Jays in Toronto. He was hittable early, serving up a first-inning homer to Melky Cabrera with an 86-mile-per-hour batting-practice changeup. Things turned around with a strikeout of Adam Lind with one out in the third inning. From that point, Tanaka dominated Toronto’s lineup with an efficiency the Yankees have desperately sought from their starting pitchers over the last few seasons. The Blue Jays managed only one hit, a single, off Tanaka in his last four and two-thirds innings. He froze batters, with 17 called strikes, and missed bats, with 13 swinging strikes. He faced a full count only three times, and he retired four batters with one pitch each. In the end, Tanaka pitched seven innings, struck out eight and walked none. Only five pitchers since 1914 had been able to match or better those totals in their major league debuts. The last to do so was Stephen Strasburg of the Washington Nationals in 2012. The last Yankee to match that debut was Rich Beck, who was a September call-up in 1965. It was one of only three starts in Beck’s career. Advertisement Some reports of Tanaka’s final season in Japan, in which he went 24-0, indicated that he was throwing in the high 90s, but that was not on display Friday. He hit 94 m.p.h. three times, all in the first three innings, according to M.L.B.’s PitchF/x data, but he was at his best working in the high 80s and low 90s and letting the aggressive Toronto hitters get themselves out. Comparing Tanaka’s debut with those of other Japanese stars shows that Tanaka hit the ground running. Hideo Nomo was an instant sensation for the Los Angeles Dodgers in 1995, but he was limited to five innings in his first start because his pitch count reached 91. Nomo struck out seven and walked four. Yu Darvish, the most dominant Japanese starter in the majors thus far, struggled in his first game, allowing five earned runs over five and two-thirds innings, striking out five and walking four. Toronto’s offense is off to a slow start, with six of Friday’s starters batting .250 or below, so Tanaka’s first real test will come when he faces a tough lineup like Boston’s. But in Game No. 1, after a few hiccups, he looked like a star. A version of this article appears in print on April 5, 2014, on page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: Rough Start Aside, an Elite Debut. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe See More » Go to Home Page »
U.S.   Log Jams Create Problems for Searchers. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Video Log Jams Create Problems for Searchers Apr. 6, 2014 | 0:46 Gov. Jay Inslee of Washington and Lt. Richard Burke of the Bellevue Fire Department discussed the search in Oso, Wash., and explained how log jams have delayed the effort. Related: article: Finding Fellowship After Deadly Washington Mudslide Show More PlaylistUp Next in Video Next → Op-Docs: Season 5 9:23 I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked   Video1:08 Hitting all the Right Notes Op-Docs: Season 5 13:33 Manufacturing China’s Future Op-Docs: Season 5 6:05 Fashion vs. Art   Video0:56 Excerpt: ‘The Father’   Video0:33 Excerpt: ‘Exit Strategy’ Op-Docs: Season 5 7:19 A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race   Video1:58 Excerpt: ‘Antlia Pneumatica’   News Clips: Europe1:20 Officials React to Panama Papers   News Clips: Europe3:47 Mossack Fonseca on Data Leak © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Washington   G.O.P. Incumbents on the Ballot. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content Skip to navigation View mobile version The New York Times Politics|G.O.P. Incumbents on the Ballot Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go http://nyti.ms/OhVcE2 Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Supported by Politics G.O.P. Incumbents on the Ballot APRIL 4, 2014 Continue reading the main story Share This Page Continue reading the main story Eleven Republican senators are up for re-election this fall, and more than half of them face opposition in the primaries. Texas: John Cornyn; renominated. Idaho: Jim Risch; primary on May 20; one opponent. Kentucky: Mitch McConnell; primary on May 20; one opponent. Alabama: Jeff Sessions; primary on June 3; no opposition. Mississippi: Thad Cochran; primary on June 3; one opponent. Maine: Susan Collins; primary on June 10; opponent withdrew. South Carolina: Lindsey Graham; primary on June 10; six opponents. Oklahoma: James M. Inhofe; primary on June 24; no opposition yet.* Kansas: Pat Roberts; primary on Aug. 5; at least one opponent.* Tennessee: Lamar Alexander; primary on Aug. 7; eight opponents. Wyoming: Michael B. Enzi; primary on Aug. 19; opponent withdrew.* Advertisement Continue reading the main story *Filing period has not closed. Source: Secretary of the Senate Continue reading the main story Related Coverage Tea Party Aims at Incumbents, but Falls Short APRIL 4, 2014 Related Coverage Tea Party Aims at Incumbents, but Falls Short APRIL 4, 2014 What's Next Loading... Go to Home Page » Site Index The New York Times Site Index Navigation News World U.S. Politics N.Y. Business Tech Science Health Sports Education Obituaries Today's Paper Corrections Opinion Today's Opinion Op-Ed Columnists Editorials Contributing Writers Op-Ed Contributors Opinionator Letters Sunday Review Taking Note Room for Debate Public Editor Video: Opinion Arts Today's Arts Art & Design ArtsBeat Books Dance Movies Music N.Y.C. Events Guide Television Theater Video: Arts Living Automobiles Crossword Food Education Fashion & Style Health Jobs Magazine N.Y.C. Events Guide Real Estate T Magazine Travel Weddings & Celebrations Listings & More Classifieds Tools & Services Times Topics Public Editor N.Y.C. Events Guide Blogs Multimedia Photography Video NYT Store Times Journeys Subscribe Manage My Account Subscribe Subscribe Times Insider Home Delivery Digital Subscriptions NYT Opinion Crossword Email Newsletters Alerts Gift Subscriptions Corporate Subscriptions Education Rate Mobile Applications Replica Edition International New York Times Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Business   Gravity Hits Highflying Tech Stocks. Advertisement For much of the past year, Tesla Motors seemingly could do no wrong in investors’ eyes. A nearly unbroken string of quarterly losses, ambitions to build a huge battery factory: no matter. Shareholders kept pushing the company’s stock up, by about 50 percent this year. But on Friday, the market had second thoughts about its onetime darling, as Tesla shares tumbled nearly 6 percent. That sudden turnaround played out again and again in the once-highflying technology and biotechnology stocks that propelled the markets for over a year. The Icarian tumble of beloved names, like NXP Semiconductor and the biopharmaceutical company Alexion, signals a potential shift in investors’ belief in chasing eye-popping growth. What remains to be seen is whether the damage has been contained, or even if these stocks have finally hit earth. All that is apparent now is that many “momentum” stocks, those that had drawn buyers because of their ascending trajectories, ran out of steam on Friday. While the three major market indexes were down that day, the Nasdaq composite index fell by more than double the descent of the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index or the Dow Jones industrial average. The Nasdaq began to wobble a little before 11 a.m., and then commenced a full-on tumble, ending the day down 2.6 percent at 4,127.73. Behind the index’s plunge was its very nature as the home of many of the highest highfliers, whose valuations have soared to spectacular levels. Over all, the Nasdaq trades at 31 times the reported earnings of its constituent companies, or nearly twice the ratio seen with the S.&P. 500. “There is concern that we could be at a near-term market peak,” said Dane Leone, the head of United States market strategy for Macquarie. If that is true, he added, investors rightly worried about holding onto stocks that were correlated so closely with overall market performance. For much of last year, shareholders favored rapid-growth stories, reflecting a hunger for high-risk, high-reward investments, especially as low interest rates kept bond investments relatively unpalatable. Technology companies, particularly Internet-based players, astounded with their booming businesses. And health companies, including technologists and biopharmaceutical drug makers, showed promise with new products. Illumina, a maker of sophisticated gene-sequencing technology and one of the highest fliers, jumped 173 percent in the year through last Thursday. And Facebook shares at their 52-week peak reached $72.59, nearly double their initial offering price from May of 2012. Those performances have also driven the market for initial public offerings to heights untouched in the United States since the boom year of 2000, according to data from Renaissance Capital. Internet and biotechnology start-ups have rushed to claim public listings, especially given some rich performances by notable debutantes. FireEye, a noted cybersecurity firm, had at its height nearly quintupled its I.P.O. price of $20 a share since going public last September. But momentum stocks rely on investor exuberance to continue their growth. And as that enthusiasm evaporated, so too did those once-magical gains. FireEye slid 8 percent on Friday; Illumina fell nearly 6.7 percent. NXP Semiconductor, whose 35 percent rise from Jan. 1 through Thursday made it one of the best performers in the Nasdaq, tumbled 7.4 percent. Few analysts agree on what spurred the sell-off, though Mr. Leone hypothesized that biotech companies suffered from pressure on the prices of their products, especially after Congress asked one drug maker, Gilead, how it could justify the $84,000 cost of its hepatitis C treatment Solvadi. Not all was doom and gloom, even on Friday. GrubHub, the online food delivery company beloved by financial industry employees, survived a wild ride to close 31 percent over its offering price, at $34 a share. IMS Health, a major seller of prescription drug data, closed up 15 percent over its I.P.O., at $23. And less-supercharged technology stocks suffered far less. Shares in Intel, for instance, ended Friday down just under 1 percent. Those in Oracle fell even less, closing down about 0.7 percent. Analysts are of two minds over what will happen next. Some believe that if investors continue to flee these momentum stocks en masse, the damage could bleed over into seemingly unconnected companies. Mr. Leone of Macquarie said that because many of these growth companies are widely held in various indexes and exchange-traded funds, a continued plummet could hurt others in those bundles. He says he remains skeptical that investors have finished their selling. “It’s hard to say that we’re really done,” he said. “There’s no valuation support for these stocks right now.” One potential area that could be affected is the I.P.O. market, if the venture capitalists and private equity financiers who back many of the start-ups worry that they cannot get the sky-high valuations that had become the norm. Kathleen S. Smith, a principal at Renaissance Capital, noted last week that investors had been pushing back against pricing in some new stock issuances. Nowhere was that more evident than with King Digital, the maker of the wildly popular Candy Crush Saga. The game maker priced its offering in the middle of March at $22.50, in the middle of its expected range, only to see the stock price sink below that almost immediately. King’s shares fell again on Friday, sliding nearly 5 percent to $18.96. But others cautioned against expecting broader damage to the market. Momentum stocks could continue to gyrate for some time, but the broader market should remain relatively unaffected, said Matthew L. Rubin, the director of investment strategy at Neuberger Berman. In fact, investors have already shown a flight to safer havens in value stocks. Moreover, some of the sell-off could be tied to benign reasons, including investors wanting to cash in gains ahead of tax season. “I think this was isolated in the momentum stock arena,” Mr. Rubin said. “A pullback was sort of in order.” A version of this article appears in print on 04/07/2014, on page B1 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Gravity Hits Highflying Tech Stocks. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   India Election Digest: April 7. Advertisement   As Indian voters head to the polls, India Ink will be compiling a daily digest of the top election-related news from local media.  What you need to know about India’s elections on Monday: The northeastern states of Tripura and Assam are the first regions to vote, the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party readies its manifesto, and key issues play on the minds of the electorate. News and analysis on the world’s largest election. The Bharatiya Janata Party is expected to issue a manifesto that affirms its Hindu nationalist credo but avoids setting economic goals. In the first of the nine phases of the parliamentary elections, at least two former militants of the United Liberation Front of Asom are running for office. Officials of Assam State say that the separatist group has issued no specific threats to voters but that security forces are on alert. If there’s a common strain among Indian voters, it’s disenchantment.  Key moments before, during and after the riots. An economic analysis of Gujarat, the home state of the candidate Narendra Modi, shows that the chief minister has had no measurable impact on the above-average growth rates in the state. Priyanka Gandhi, who has been handling the Indian National Congress’s election war room for her brother, Rahul Gandhi, might be asked to take on Narendra Modi of the Bharatiya Janata Party in Varanasi. Will she? What would you like to see here? E-mail us at indiaink@nytimes.com India’s national elections began April 7 and will continue on nine separate dates until May 12, with results expected to be announced on May 16. The vote is the world’s largest, with 814 million eligible voters set to choose 543 members of the lower house of Parliament. The other two seats will be appointed by the president. This election is widely considered to be India’s most consequential since 1977. India Ink will be moving to the World page of The New York Times. Read more… A memorial ceremony at the Imphal War Cemetery in Manipur to honor the soldiers who died during World War II.Read more… The newly elected prime minister reaches out to the public in a blog post about his first 30 days in office.Read more… Newborns whose mothers are unable to breastfeed are given stored breast milk to protect them from potentially life-threatening infection.Read more… In the final stage of a long decline, Hindustan Motors announced in May that it would suspend production of the Ambassador, a car that was once synonymous with style and status.Read more… This report on India from the journalists of The New York Times and a pool of talented writers in India and beyond provides unbiased, authoritative reporting on the country and its place in the world. India Ink also strives to be a virtual meeting point for discussion of this complex, fast-changing democracy – its politics, economy, culture and everyday life. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Society   Wedding Q. & A.. Advertisement Advertisement Well-Mannered By PEGGY POST APRIL 7, 2014 Who’s In, Who’s Out My fiancé and I decided very early in our planning to have a small wedding. We are not big entertainers and want our wedding to be as intimate and stress-free as possible. However, in deciding to invite only immediate family and a few of my fiancé’s and my very close friends and their spouses/partners, we (as expected) have caused quite a hubbub. We have no living grandparents, and I’ve never been close to my extended family (aunts, uncles, cousins), save one aunt. My fiancé never planned to invite his extended family for the same reason. My parents are hurt by our decision. My fiancé and I are fully funding our wedding (particularly to avoid having to accommodate guest list additions from my parents), and we are having a second reception in my hometown. The guest list is wide open for the second reception. My question is how to handle the repeated complaints from my parents and questions from my extended family regarding their lack of invitation to the first ceremony and reception. I would think, “We wanted a small wedding, but you’re very welcome to our second reception!” would be sufficient, but I wanted to be sure. Anonymous, Austin, Tex. For many engaged couples, the biggest planning hurdle is the creation of the wedding guest list. It sounds as if you and your fiancé have carefully considered the ramifications of your desire for a serene, intimate wedding from the very beginning. It is your — and your fiancé’s — choice to make about the size of your wedding guest list. It is unfortunate that your parents and some extended family members think otherwise. Perhaps some of the hurt stems from a belief on their part that a wedding is an important family occasion that includes as many family members and generations as possible, and that very well may have been the case for their own weddings. You have a couple of options. One is to consider the bigger picture regarding your family and come up with a compromise. Perhaps you could invite your aunts and uncles, but not your cousins. That offer to meet your parents part of the way might dispel some of their hurt. Another option is to try to get your parents to understand your dream of having a low-keyed, intimate wedding. Have a calm, one-on-one chat with your parents to explain that you truly prefer a wedding with only a limited number of guests. Ask them for their acceptance of your plan. Tell them that their buy-in would mean much to you. If they can get on board with the idea, it should help temper the complaints from other relatives. The fact that you have already been planning the second reception should help soften the blow for those who feel slighted. See if you can refocus your parents’ attention on the excitement of planning that event. You can take the high road and graciously deflect any further comments from your other relatives with, “We are having the small wedding that we’ve envisioned, but hope that you will come to and enjoy our later celebration.” Once the word is out, the speculation and opinions about the guest list usually die down. I hope that’s the case for you and your fiancé. Advertisement Options for Children I am getting married in October. My fiancé and I have some couple friends who have young children. I was not planning on addressing the invite “and family.” On the other hand, I have family, first cousins, with small children that are expecting “and family” on their invites. It’s a sticky situation. Personally, I know that my friends with small kids will not bring them as they want to enjoy an adult evening out but I know not everyone feels that way or has the resources to enjoy such a luxury. What do you suggest I do? Anonymous It sounds as if you are planning to invite your cousins’ children and are wondering if that means you should invite your friends’ children as well. Either choice is perfectly O.K. If you are inviting some children but not others, make sure there is a logical reason for doing so. In your case, if a friend inquires, you can say that you are only inviting children of family members. Advertisement You are right that many invited couples prefer to leave their children at home or with a sitter during the wedding and reception so they can enjoy the festivities. Some brides and grooms arrange for a kid wrangler/babysitter or two to entertain the younger children during the reception or in a nearby space. Others provide babysitter recommendations if families are staying at a hotel. On the other hand, if you and your fiancé envision a wedding without any children, that’s fine. You do have several months before it’s time to send your invitations. Now would be a good time to get in touch with those cousins with children and let them know that you won’t be inviting the kids. Phone or in person is best to be sure there are no misunderstandings. With this much advance notice your cousins should have enough time to budget and plan for babysitting. You could also have a blurb on your personal wedding website: “We are unable to accommodate children at our wedding. If your children are traveling with you, here are some recommendations for child care...” When the time comes to address your wedding invitations, the envelopes will reinforce who is being invited. Write only the names of invitees. If no children’s names are on either envelope, then parents will see that they are invited sans kids. If you do want to include children, write their names below their parents: Mr. and Mrs. James Allen Smith Miss Betsy Smith Peggy Post is the author of “Emily Post’s Etiquette, 18th Edition,” and a director of the Emily Post Institute in Burlington, Vt. The institute provides etiquette and relationship advice through books, business etiquette seminars and the web, and is run by descendants of Emily Post. Submit questions to weddingmanners@nytimes.com or by mail to The New York Times, Society News Desk, Fourth Floor, 620 Eighth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10018. Include daytime and evening telephone numbers so that Ms. Post and Times editors may follow up. Readers can also link to the column on the institute’s website, at emilypost.com/wedding. Your question or one very similar to it may have been answered in previous columns by Ms. Post. Use the search tool at nytimes.com/weddings by typing a key word like “gifts” and then the name “Well-Mannered Wedding” for more etiquette advice. See More » Go to Home Page »
Sports   Nixon Leads in Spain. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content Skip to navigation View mobile version The New York Times Golf|Nixon Leads in Spain Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go http://nyti.ms/1kdOHkC Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Supported by Golf | Sports Briefing | Golf Nixon Leads in Spain By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 6, 2014 Continue reading the main story Share This Page Continue reading the main story Matthew Nixon shot a seven-under-par 65 to take a one-stroke lead after the third round at the NH Collection Open in Cádiz, Spain. Nixon had nine birdies to overcome a pair of bogeys in the best round of the inaugural tournament at La Reserva de Sotogrande Golf Club for an overall eight-under 208. Marco Crespi of Italy is one stroke back with Chile’s Felipe Aguilar another shot back in third. Poor weather and darkness had forced the opening two rounds to be suspended on Thursday and Friday. Continue reading the main story What's Next Loading... Go to Home Page » Site Index The New York Times Site Index Navigation News World U.S. Politics N.Y. Business Tech Science Health Sports Education Obituaries Today's Paper Corrections Opinion Today's Opinion Op-Ed Columnists Editorials Contributing Writers Op-Ed Contributors Opinionator Letters Sunday Review Taking Note Room for Debate Public Editor Video: Opinion Arts Today's Arts Art & Design ArtsBeat Books Dance Movies Music N.Y.C. Events Guide Television Theater Video: Arts Living Automobiles Crossword Food Education Fashion & Style Health Jobs Magazine N.Y.C. Events Guide Real Estate T Magazine Travel Weddings & Celebrations Listings & More Classifieds Tools & Services Times Topics Public Editor N.Y.C. Events Guide Blogs Multimedia Photography Video NYT Store Times Journeys Subscribe Manage My Account Subscribe Subscribe Times Insider Home Delivery Digital Subscriptions NYT Opinion Crossword Email Newsletters Alerts Gift Subscriptions Corporate Subscriptions Education Rate Mobile Applications Replica Edition International New York Times Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Technology   The World’s Biggest Tetris Game. Channels & Shows Home Search Technology Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Technology The World’s Biggest Tetris Game By Axel Gerdau | Apr. 6, 2014 | 2:33 The Drexel University professor Frank Lee and his team hacked into the lighting system of a 29-story skyscraper in Philadelphia to play Tetris on the building’s facade. Related: blogpost: Making a Game Larger Than Life Show More PlaylistUp Next in Technology Next →   Business1:31 Fiat Chief on New Innovation Ideas   Technology0:37 Australian Says He Created Bitcoin Retro Report U.S. & Politics11:41 The Terminator and the Washing Machine   Business1:33 Is Apple Right in Defying the F.B.I.? App Smart Technology2:08 App Smart | The Dating Game App Smart Technology2:11 App Smart | Day Trackers App Smart Technology2:08 App Smart | Fresh From CES App Smart Technology2:08 App Smart | Digital Diaries App Smart Technology2:11 App Smart | 2016 Trends App Smart Technology2:10 Goals for the New Year © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Travel   After Earthquakes, a Creative Rebirth in Christchurch. Advertisement Advertisement By JUSTIN BERGMANAPRIL 4, 2014 On the afternoon of Feb. 22, 2011, as the C1 Espresso cafe in Christchurch was in the midst of a busy lunch rush, the walls and tables suddenly began shaking, windows started popping out of their frames, and the lights flickered out. The region had been experiencing aftershocks from a large earthquake that had struck six months earlier, but this one was different. In a span of minutes, the entire city center was devastated, including the cafe, which was eventually demolished. Nearly 200 people across the city died. Less than two years later, C1 reopened in an Art Deco space, once a post office, across the street from the old location. The rebuilding process was not easy for the owner, Sam Crofskey: He was deeply in debt, paying off one credit card with the next, and had a new baby to support. “It was absolutely terrifying,” he said. “I didn’t sleep for a very long time.” But leaving Christchurch was never an option. Like many entrepreneurs, artists, designers and other hardy residents who have chosen to stay in the city, he was determined to see Christchurch rebound — and become a better city than it was before. New Zealand is accustomed to earthquakes, but few have been as destructive as the 6.3-magnitude tremor that hit Christchurch, the South Island’s largest city, in 2011. The central business district, which was cordoned off from the public for more than two years, still looks like a war zone. Fences that stretch for blocks enclose vacant lots piled high with rubble. Deserted buildings await demolition, some with gaping holes where windows should be, some without walls. There are so many safety pylons on the sidewalks and roads that locals joke that the region’s traditional sporting colors — red and black — should be changed to fluorescent orange. The everyday sounds of the city have been replaced by jackhammers, bulldozers and the endless beeping of construction vehicles backing out of building sites. Tasman Sea Tequila Mockingbird Auckland Revival NORTH ISLAND NEW ZEALAND Wellington SOUTH ISLAND Christchurch South Pacific Ocean Queenstown Christchurch Rekindle Gloucester st. Novotel Hotel Rendezvous Hotel Cathedral Sq. Christchurch Art Gallery Heritage Christchurch Hereford st. Cardboard Cathedral C1 Espresso Yet amid such scenes of desolation are flashes of artistic whimsy. On one block, an impromptu installation called the Sound Garden has been set up, with chimes fashioned from hollowed-out fire extinguishers and a rain stick made from a pipe filled with wooden beads and rubber balls. Across the street is something called a Dance-O-Mat — an open-air dance floor with speakers and a disco ball where passers-by are invited to drop a coin into a washing machine, plug in their smartphones and get down in front of construction workers for a half-hour. Slowly, life is returning to Christchurch, in part thanks to creative endeavors like these. “The city is irreversibly different and irreversibly changed. It’s mostly gone,” said Coralie Winn, a co-founder of Gap Filler, a collaborative group formed after the earthquakes of 2010 and 2011 to develop innovative ways to make temporary use of empty city spaces, including the Sound Garden and Dance-O-Mat. “So we have to do something new and different, because what choice do you have?” Advertisement Gap Filler’s projects were instantly popular among young people who lost their cinemas, theaters, clubs and bars and were in need of entertainment. An open-air performance space constructed of shipping pallets, known as the Pallet Pavilion, proved so successful that the program raised more than 80,000 New Zealand dollars (about $70,000 U.S.) in a monthlong, crowd-sourced drive to keep it running for an extra year. A miniature golf course spread out hole by hole in gravel-filled lots across the city has also been a hit. (“It’s the world’s first post-disaster mini-golf course,” Ms. Winn said.) The group’s witty response to the quake — not to mention the agonizingly slow rebuilding of the downtown — soon inspired other residents to find imaginative ways to revitalize a city in transition. Another community group, Greening the Rubble, began cultivating small parks and gardens in vacant lots, all designed to be moved at a moment’s notice — literally, sometimes — when a construction project began. Other spaces were turned into memorials, like the poignant arrangement of 185 empty white chairs set up by the artist Pete Majendie on the first anniversary of the quake, in remembrance of those who died. A group of young artists who founded a collective called the Social has at times taken a guerrilla approach — one member, for instance, lobbed duck decoys over fences into the rain ponds created in the foundations of demolished buildings. Another artist, Gaby Montejo, a co-founder of the group, erected tongue-in-cheek emergency boxes on walls around town containing items like a pair of Crocs and a “Titanic” VHS cassette. Advertisement “Christchurch has a reputation as a really conservative city,” said Audrey Baldwin, a performance artist who stages works in empty lots. “But one of the positives from the quake is that it’s really shaken things up and made people pay attention to the possibility in art and how important that role is. There’s so much more opportunity now for creatives than there was before.” Even the Christchurch Art Gallery, the city’s pre-eminent art institution, was driven to the streets, though out of necessity. For six months after the quake, it was taken over by recovery authorities, and then it was shut down for its own repairs. Without a home, the gallery began commissioning murals on walls across town. Jenny Harper, the gallery director, said the goal was not only to keep the staff engaged, but also to provide work for artists who lost studios in the city. There was some creative flight after the quake, but many artists remained. “Part of our motivation was to make sure we kept the creative community here as far as we could because we just couldn’t imagine Christchurch without a lot of these people,” she said. There are so many murals and public artworks now — some commissioned by the gallery, others by the long-running SCAPE Public Art group — the entire city center feels like a giant exhibition space. Competition for wall space is fierce — one of the gallery’s murals was even tagged by a graffiti artist who not so politely requested the gallery keep its art indoors. Ms. Harper tried to take a hospitable attitude: “We thought, well, it’s engagement.” While some artists did leave after the quake, others have come to be part of the creative rebirth. Juliet Arnott, a designer and occupational therapist, was lured back from Britain after seeing how much wood from the thousands of homes being demolished in the suburbs was going to waste. She started a furniture company called Rekindle, using salvaged wood to design rough-hewed tables, chairs, stools and benches, some still bearing the homes’ original paint jobs. Even the off-cuts are turned into chunky bracelets and cuff links, all sold in her Spanish-Mission-style showroom on New Regent Street, one of the few historic streetscapes left in the city. Advertisement Architects and entrepreneurs, too, have found creative opportunities. Perhaps the most ambitious and well-known building to rise amid the rubble is the Cardboard Cathedral, an ingenious design by Shigeru Ban, who received the Pritzker Architecture Prize last month for the transitional emergency shelters he’s built for disaster victims around the world. The cathedral was intended to be a temporary replacement for the city’s 19th-century ChristChurch Cathedral, which was damaged in the quake and is now at the center of a pitched legal battle between preservationists, who want to restore it, and the Anglican Church, which wants to “deconstruct” it and build a new one. In the meantime, Mr. Ban’s cathedral, with its soaring A-frame roof built with beams encased by cardboard tubes, serves as a stand-in for the old church’s congregation — as well as a new tourist draw for the city. Sam Heaps and Brett Giddens took a risk on a new business for a very different reason — they saw a city in need of an infusion of night life. Only months after the quake, they set up a pop-up bar in a shipping container optimistically named Revival, and within days of opening, they had a line 100 yards down the block. The duo have since added a Latin tapas restaurant, Tequila Mockingbird, next door. Mr. Giddens said that people may have called them “idiots” at the time for opening downtown, but that they were confident residents would return.” Mr. Heaps added: “We knew what we were doing because we were the target demographic. We were listening to what our peer group wanted.” Mr. Crofskey, the owner of C1, believes pre-quake Christchurch was a staid place in steady decline, but there’s now opportunity for not just revival, but also innovation. That is immediately evident at his cafe, which features a system of pneumatic tubes along the ceiling that delivers sliders from the kitchen to each table, and a miniature organic vineyard on the roof. It’s also completely self-sufficient; waste heat is pumped into the restaurant from the kitchen and coffee roaster, and solar panels provide electricity. “I want people to say, the best cafe in the world is in this city called Christchurch,” Mr. Crofskey said. “They were destroyed, they were on their knees and they got back up and they did it again.” IF YOU GO ART AND ARCHITECTURE To find many of the transitional projects in town, the city guide Neat Places publishes a handy creative Christchurch map, which can be found all over the city and online (neatplaces.co.nz). Gap Filler also has a map of its projects on its website (gapfiller.org.nz), as well as a Gap Map App” for iPhone users. The Cardboard Cathedral, 234 Hereford Street; 64-3-366-0046; cardboardcathedral.org.nz). The Christchurch Art Gallery (64-3-941-7300) is not expected to reopen until 2015. A map to the public murals can be found at christchurchartgallery.org.nz/outerspaces. The gallery also has two temporary exhibition spaces at the Art Box (corner of Madras and St. Asaph Streets) and above C1 Espresso. The Social lists its events on its Tumblr page (chchsocial.tumblr.com). RETAIL Rekindle, 35 New Regent Street; 64-21-0242-1208; rekindle.org.nz. Re:START, Cashel Street; restart.org.nz. BARS AND RESTAURANTS C1 Espresso, High and Tuam Streets; 64-21-380-386; c1espresso.co.nz. Revival, 92-96 Victoria Street; 64-3-379-9559; revivalbar.co.nz. Tequila Mockingbird, 98 Victoria Street; 64-3-365-8565; tequilamockingbird.co.nz. A version of this article appears in print on April 6, 2014, on page TR5 of the New York edition with the headline: After Earthquakes, a Creative Rebirth. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
U.S.   Retro Report. Channels & Shows Home Search U.S. & Politics Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos In bold documentary style, Retro Report looks back at the major stories that shaped the world using fresh interviews, analysis and compelling archival footage. Produced by Retro Report for The New York Times. Recent Episodes in Retro Report Retro Report U.S. & Politics 12:56 A Change of Heart Retro Report U.S. & Politics 11:41 The Terminator and the Washing Machine Retro Report U.S. & Politics 11:31 After Bush v. Gore Retro Report U.S. & Politics 2:02 When Dreams Fly Retro Report U.S. & Politics 8:29 Runaway Plane Retro Report U.S. & Politics 2:03 Is it All in Your Gut? Retro Report U.S. & Politics 1:39 The Unexpected Science of Exercise Retro Report U.S. & Politics 2:03 The Bliss Point Retro Report U.S. & Politics 12:30 A Decades-Long Search for a Perfect Diet Show more videos from Retro Report Most Popular 1 Food Coconut Cluster Granola 2 U.S. Best of Obama's Correspondents' Dinner Speech 3 Opinion Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics 4 U.S. Obama Delivers Howard’s Commencement 5 Fashion & Style Bill Cunningham | Garden Party 6 U.S. Copwatch vs. Cops: After Freddie Gray 7 World The Killing of Farkhunda 8 U.S. Welfare and the Politics of Poverty 9 Multimedia/Photos Illustrated Interview | Buzz Aldrin 10 Movies This Week’s Movies | May 6, 2016 © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Books   The Read Around: Tim Federle. Channels & Shows Home Search Culture Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Culture The Read Around: Tim Federle By Chris Cascarano | Apr. 7, 2014 | 2:43 Tim Federle, the author of “Five, Six, Seven, Nate!,” says the challenge of writing for younger readers is to make sure adults have just as much fun reading the book as children do. Show More PlaylistUp Next in Culture Next → This Week’s Movies Culture3:28 This Week’s Movies | May 6, 2016   U.S.0:22 Obama, Dancing With the Star (Wars)   Opinion6:58 Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics   Fashion1:13 Red Carpet Arrivals at the Met Ball   Culture3:07 Tony Nominations Are Announced This Week’s Movies Culture3:28 This Week’s Movies | April 29, 2016 Anatomy of a Scene Culture2:41 Anatomy | ‘The Man Who Knew Infinity’   Europe0:29 Big Ben to Be Silenced   Food1:12 Tomatillo Pineapple Salsa | Taste Makers   Taste Makers6:01 Nigerian Food, Crash-and-Burn Style | Taste Makers © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Business   That’s Enough!. Advertisement By Ian Livengood Apr 8, 2014 The New York Times Crossword is available through subscription only. TUESDAY’S PUZZLE — We started off the week with a terrific debut by Douglas Taillon, and we continue the fun with a really nice puzzle by Ian Livengood. This one was another one that felt like it was over too soon. There are at least five ways to say “That’s enough!” according to Mr. Livengood, and I liked them all. My favorite, though, was probably the central entry, MOVE IT ALONG, which is an assembly line worker’s punny way of saying “That’s enough!” Not only that, but four out of the five theme entries are unique and making their debuts today, which is a bonus for us. In nontheme news, there are some nuggets of brilliance here to mine. I loved the duplicitous clue for CREW TEAM at 3 Down; “Unit involved in a shell game” had my brain stuck on PEA for the longest time, but there was no way I could stretch that to eight letters. I also really liked WHAT NOT, APE SUIT and GAS STOVE (I’m trying to decide whether to convert from electric to gas right now, so this seemed like the universe was talking to me). Let’s hear what Mr. Livengood has to say about his puzzle: What’s better: LETO with a fresh clue (Jared of “Dallas Buyers Club”) or VETO? In a vacuum, VETO always wins — it’s got the scrabbly V, it’s not a proper noun and it has a number of clue possibilities. But with a new and improved LETO clue … (Thinking) … nah, I should have gone with VETO. Oh, this puzzle was inspired by Sam Donaldson and Doug Peterson’s wonderful 3/26/13 offering. The magic of reinterpreted spoken phrases! Hope solvers like this one! I don’t know about you, but I’m still thinking about that assembly line. We can’t MOVE IT ALONG to the next puzzle without remembering this assembly line: Your thoughts? Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. David Kahn puts us through the wringer.Read more… Emily Cox and Henry Rathvon offer us a challenging cryptic crossword puzzle.Read more… A place for solvers to discuss and ask questions about the “A Little Variety” suite of puzzles.Read more… Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Food   Food Curated: Jeepney’s Chori Burger. Channels & Shows Home Search Food Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Food Food Curated: Jeepney’s Chori Burger By Liza de Guia | Apr. 7, 2014 | 4:32 The Chori burger at Jeepney, a Filipino restaurant in the East Village, is unlike any other in New York. Here’s how it is made. Related: article: Video: Jeepney’s Chori Burger Show More PlaylistUp Next in Food Next → Melissa Clark Food2:08 Coconut Cluster Granola   International1:04 McDonald’s Copycat in Separatist Ukraine Melissa Clark Food1:51 Green Garlic Tabbouleh   Food1:46 Beer-Brined Roast Chicken | Taste Makers   Taste Makers6:32 Finding Your Flavors in the Kitchen | Taste Makers   Food1:12 Tomatillo Pineapple Salsa | Taste Makers   Taste Makers5:40 Growing Organics ‘Sin Fronteras’ | Taste Makers   Food1:16 Jollof Rice | Taste Makers   Taste Makers6:01 Nigerian Food, Crash-and-Burn Style | Taste Makers Melissa Clark Food2:33 Chicken and Artichokes © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Foreign   Image of the Day: April 7. Advertisement India’s national elections began April 7 and will continue on nine separate dates until May 12, with results expected to be announced on May 16. The vote is the world’s largest, with 814 million eligible voters set to choose 543 members of the lower house of Parliament. The other two seats will be appointed by the president. This election is widely considered to be India’s most consequential since 1977. India Ink will be moving to the World page of The New York Times. Read more… A memorial ceremony at the Imphal War Cemetery in Manipur to honor the soldiers who died during World War II.Read more… The newly elected prime minister reaches out to the public in a blog post about his first 30 days in office.Read more… Newborns whose mothers are unable to breastfeed are given stored breast milk to protect them from potentially life-threatening infection.Read more… In the final stage of a long decline, Hindustan Motors announced in May that it would suspend production of the Ambassador, a car that was once synonymous with style and status.Read more… This report on India from the journalists of The New York Times and a pool of talented writers in India and beyond provides unbiased, authoritative reporting on the country and its place in the world. India Ink also strives to be a virtual meeting point for discussion of this complex, fast-changing democracy – its politics, economy, culture and everyday life. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Science   Look for Cancer, and Find It Sign Up for the Running Email. Advertisement Mammography has become a fighting word in recent years, with some researchers questioning its value and others staunchly defending it. One especially disturbing criticism is that screening mammography may lead to “overtreatment,” in which some women go through grueling therapies — surgery, radiation, chemotherapy — that they do not need. Indeed, some studies estimate that 19 percent or more of women whose breast cancers are found by mammography wind up being overtreated. We asked our readers to share insights from their experiences with breast cancer. Here are some of their stories. This problem occurs, researchers say, because mammography can “overdiagnose” breast cancer, meaning that some of the tiny cancers it finds would probably never progress or threaten the patient’s life. But they are treated anyway. So where are these overtreated women? Nobody knows. They are out there somewhere, studies suggest. But the figures on overtreatment are based on theory and calculations, not on counting the heads of actual patients known to have experienced it. No one can point to a particular woman and say, “Here’s a patient who went through the wringer for nothing.” Overdiagnosis is not the same as a false positive result, in which a test like a mammogram initially suggests a problem but is proved wrong. False positives are frightening and expensive, but overtreatment is the potential harm of mammography that worries doctors most, according to an article published last week in The Journal of the American Medical Association. But the authors also say that estimates of how often overdiagnosis and overtreatment occur are among the least reliable and most controversial of all the data on mammography. In the past, overdiagnosis was thought to apply mainly to ductal carcinoma in situ, or D.C.I.S., a breast growth that may or may not turn cancerous. Now, researchers think that invasive cancers are also being overdiagnosed and overtreated by mammography. The concept of overtreatment is based on the belief that not all breast cancers are deadly. Some never progress, researchers suspect, and some progress so slowly that the patient will probably die of something else, particularly if she is older or has other health problems. But mammography can find all of these tumors, even those too small to feel. And doctors and patients rarely watch and wait — once a tumor is found, it is treated, because nobody knows how to tell the dangerous ones from those that could be safely left alone. “Everyone has an anecdote of a small spot on mammography year after year that was finally biopsied and turned out to be positive — invasive, low grade,” said Dr. Constance Lehman, a radiologist at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Center and the director of breast imaging at the University of Washington in Seattle. Where do the numerical estimates of overdiagnosis come from? In several large studies of mammography screening, women judged to have the same risk of breast cancer were picked at random to have the test or to skip it. Early on, more cancers were expected in the mammogram group, because the test can find small tumors. Over time, the groups should have equalized, because if small tumors in the unscreened group were really life-threatening, they would have grown big enough to be felt or caused other symptoms. But in several studies, the number of cancers in the unscreened group never caught up with the number in the mammography group. The reason for the difference, researchers assume, is that there must have been women in the unscreened group who had cancers that were never diagnosed and never progressed — and therefore did not need treatment. The next step is to subtract the number of cancers in the unscreened group from the number in the mammography group. The result is the estimate of how many women in the mammography group were overtreated. “We don’t know which individual women those were,” said Dr. Lydia E. Pace, of Brigham and Women’s Hospital, an author of the new paper. “All we know is the proportion, and a lot of people would argue that we don’t really know the proportion.” This kind of calculation was used in a Canadian study of about 90,000 women, published in February in the journal BMJ. The authors found that after 15 years there was a “residual excess” of 106 invasive cancers in the mammography group. The authors attributed that to overdiagnosis, and said that it amounted to 22 percent of the 484 invasive cancers found by mammography. They concluded that for every 424 women who had mammography in the study, one was overdiagnosed. Other studies have estimated overdiagnosis in different ways, with huge variations in the results, reporting that 5 percent to 50 percent of cancers found on mammograms are overdiagnosed. To make it clear that the numbers are uncertain, some offer ranges: For example, one says that if 10,000 50-year-old women have annual mammograms for 10 years, 30 to 137 women will be overdiagnosed. It is frightening to consider the prospect that mammography could be leading some down a slippery slope to unneeded surgery, chemotherapy and radiation, with all their risks and side effects. But the numbers on overdiagnosis are all over the map, a shaky foundation on which to base important decisions. The best hope for resolving the confusion may lie in molecular tests that can tell the difference between dangerous tumors and those unlikely to progress — but those tests are in the future. A version of this article appears in print on 04/08/2014, on page D6 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Look for Cancer, and Find It. Your health questions answered by Times journalists and experts. Your Questions | All » Get Well's Running email for practical tips, expert advice, exclusive content and a bit of motivation delivered to your inbox every week to help you on your running journey. Coming soon. How much do you know about the amazing things that go on in your gut? Take our quiz to find out about the creepy, crawly critters living in your home. What surface is the most friendly to the flu virus? Where’s the best place to stand when you’re talking to a sick person? How does sleep affect health, relationships and well-being? The “Reading the Mind in the Eyes Test” measures ability to understand others’ emotional states. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   Highlights and Analysis: UConn Beats Kentucky for Title. Advertisement ARLINGTON, Tex. — The Connecticut Huskies had seen this script before, but they decided on a different ending. The Huskies captured their second national championship in four years Monday night, staving off a comeback bid by Kentucky and beating the young Wildcats, 60-54. UConn led by as many as 15 points in the first half, but the Wildcats, who had rallied from early deficits in their last three games, drew within a point in the second half and had momentum on their side. But the Huskies shot 10 for 10 from the free-throw line and never gave up the lead. Kentucky, with its five freshmen starters, shot just 54 percent from the line, missing 11 of 24 free throws. UConn’s backcourt tandem — Shabazz Napier Ryan Boatright — combined for 36 points, including four 3-pointers by Napier. UConn wins, 60-54, for its second national championship in four years. — STEVE EDER Kentucky is shooting just 54 percent from the free-throw line on 13 of 24 shooting. That’s a lot of points left on the board in a tight game. — STEVE EDER Two huge 3s for UConn on back-to-back positions give the Huskies some much-needed breathing room. — STEVE EDER Kentucky has never led in this game, although it has been hanging so close for much of the second half. Think they can finally break through? — STEVE EDER Kentucky’s zone has really done a good job nullifying UConn’s slashing ability and slowed down Napier and Boatright, who looked all but unstoppable in the first half. One thing to note, however: Kentucky has left 8 points on the board with missed free throws. That could really come back to haunt them. — ZACH SCHONBRUN Shabazz Napier and Ryan Boatright have cooled off in the second half, combining for just 4 points for Connecticut. The pair scored 23 in the first 20 minutes. Still, Connecticut has expanded its lead to 5. — STEVE EDER In case you can’t tell at home, the very large crowd at AT&T Stadium is decidedly backing Kentucky. — STEVE EDER We have got ourselves a game. Kentucky comes out of the locker room with a lot more energy and confidence and the Wildcats cut the UConn lead to 1. The Harrison twins have combined for 15 points. — ZACH SCHONBRUN Kentucky has made a habit of falling behind in this tournament, particularly in the first half. They fell way behind Louisville in the Sweet 16 – 13 points – only to come back and win. They also gave heads starts to Wichita State, Michigan and Wisconsin, before of course coming back and winning all of those games close. The championship game feels familiar, with Kentucky falling back 15 early, only to make a big run before halftime, making it a 4 point game. Which Kentucky will we see in the second half? — STEVE EDER What adjustments would you make if you were John Calipari? Or, asked a different way, how does Connecticut make sure it maintains its lead? Anybody have any suggestions or are you all too mesmerized by Willie Cauley-Stein’s shirt (we don’t blame you)? — ZACH SCHONBRUN After all that – Kentucky trails Connecticut by just 4 points at the half. Connecticut led by as much as 15, but Kentucky came back furiously over the final minutes of the half. Kentucky has come back before in this tournament. It’ll set up as an exciting second half. — STEVE EDER Everybody has to eat. #finalfour http://t.co/cfLS8ErK9G — Steve Eder (@SteveEder) 8 Apr 14 Kentucky was trailing by 30-15 and things were looking bleak. But the Wildcats have now gone on an 11-3 run. Calipari switched to a zone defense and that has been effective slowing down the Huskies a bit. Three-pointers by James Young and Andrew Harrison also helped. — ZACH SCHONBRUN A couple of jumpers by Andrew Harrison provide Kentucky with their first points from outside. But the Wildcats’ issue now is defensively. UConn’s sets are absolutely cutting the young Cats up right now. — ZACH SCHONBRUN Connecticut’s backcourt of Shabazz Napier and Ryan Boatright has been well-celebrated over the past couple weeks with the duo coming up big in UConn’s string of upsets. The pair is off to another good start – combining to score 16 of UConn’s first 24 points. Each has 8 points – Napier has added two steals and Boatright has three rebounds. — STEVE EDER Former Presidents George W. Bush and Bill Clinton in suite, and #Romo scored the photobomb #CBSDFWFinalFour http://t.co/5KbqGOwxEM — CBSDFW (@CBSDFW) 8 Apr 14 CBS says Julius Randle is cramping. He’s been coming in and out of the game. That is not good news for Kentucky. — ZACH SCHONBRUN The Cauley-Stein shirt in all its glory, from @SBNationGIF http://t.co/s3Ka8C8hPq — Luke Winn (@lukewinn) 8 Apr 14 Well, Ryan Boatright came to play. Actually all of UConn looks sharp. Huskies shooting 7 of 13 and are currently on a 11-2 run. Kentucky is having a hard time against this defense. But then again, Kentucky has been a slow-starting team all postseason — ZACH SCHONBRUN Looks to be some early jitters from both teams. Julius Randle left the court after just 2 minutes 50 seconds, probably so Calipari could get him settled a bit. Kentucky has been sloppy with the ball, and the Cats’ point guard Andrew Harrison is definitely going to have to tighten up a bit against UConn’s pestering guards. — ZACH SCHONBRUN Anyone need binoculars at AT&T stadium? http://t.co/ShrLqrPKsW by @JulietMacur http://t.co/jhm0dLY6BV — Steve Eder (@SteveEder) 7 Apr 14 And we’ve tipped off here in Arlington. UConn takes the first shot – and misses. But scores on its second attempt. — STEVE EDER We haven’t even tipped, but already some Kentucky news has set the Twitter world abuzz. About two and a half hours ago, Rex Chapman, the former Wildcats star turned television analyst, wrote on Twitter that a move by John Calipari to the Los Angeles Lakers after the season, win or lose, is a “done deal.” Naturally, this has quickly become just about the one-and-only topic Kentucky fans are talking about before the game. Certainly Calipari-to-the-N.B.A. rumors are nothing new. But the timing of this latest one could not be worse for the Wildcats. Here’s the tweet: https://twitter.com/rexchapman/status/453315509589528576 — ZACH SCHONBRUN Connecticut and Kentucky fans are filing into AT&T Stadium, and it is difficult to get a clear read on which side is better represented because just about everyone here is wearing blue. The skies cleared in Arlington, tonight in time for the final night of the Final Four. Fans were even tailgating in the parking lot. Some were tossing around baseballs. It’s a nice night for a basketball game.  — STEVE EDER Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Technology   A 45-Second Test Flight. Channels & Shows Home Search Technology Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Technology A 45-Second Test Flight By Nick Bilton and Mac William Bishop | Apr. 7, 2014 | 0:47 A test flight of a consumer aerial drone with a stabilized camera, the DJI Phantom 2 Vision Plus, ends when a moveable object meets an unyielding surface. Related: blogpost: Crashing DJI’s New Drone Into Water and Land Show More PlaylistUp Next in Technology Next →   Business1:31 Fiat Chief on New Innovation Ideas   Technology0:37 Australian Says He Created Bitcoin Retro Report U.S. & Politics11:41 The Terminator and the Washing Machine   Business1:33 Is Apple Right in Defying the F.B.I.? App Smart Technology2:08 App Smart | The Dating Game App Smart Technology2:11 App Smart | Day Trackers App Smart Technology2:08 App Smart | Fresh From CES App Smart Technology2:08 App Smart | Digital Diaries App Smart Technology2:11 App Smart | 2016 Trends App Smart Technology2:10 Goals for the New Year © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Travel   Discounts for Starwood Suites in New York. Advertisement Starwood Hotels in the New York City area will hold the first “Suite Week” April 15 to 29, offering 30 percent off the best available rates in suites at all of its hotel brands. Inspired by city-wide promotions such as Restaurant Week and Broadway Week, the Starwood sale will allow travelers to book their rooms during the sale weeks – actually two, despite the sale’s name — for stays through March 31, 2015. Selling suites boosts bookings of more expensive rooms at the 10 hotels involved. But, as with regular reservations, no prepayment is required and guests can cancel up to 24 hours in advance of their stay without a penalty. To sweeten the deal, most of the hotels will offer freebies. For example, the Chatwal is throwing in breakfast for two at the Lambs Club, complimentary chocolates and a 20 percent discount on spa services; St. Regis New York will offer use of its Bentley for trips around town; and the W New York-Times Square plans to chip in two cocktails and discounted tickets to any Broadway show. In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
U.S.   Air National Guard on Baby Rescue. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos News Clips Air National Guard on Baby Rescue Apr. 8, 2014 | 0:34 Maj. Mark Bomann, the flight doctor who treated a sick baby who was rescued from a family boat in the Pacific Ocean, said the 1-year-old girl was in stable condition. Related: article: 2 Tots, a Sailboat and a Storm Over Parenting Show More PlaylistUp Next in News Clips Next →   News Clips1:10 Inside Aleppo Hospital Before Attack   News Clips1:01 Sanders Predicts Contested Convention   News Clips1:06 Trump Blasts Cruz for 'Wasting Time'   News Clips4:02 How Will Obama Spend His Retirement?   U.S. & Politics8:22 Best of Obama's Correspondents' Dinner Speech   News Clips: Asia Pacific0:49 Chinese Temple Employs Robot Monk   News Clips: Asia Pacific0:29 U.S. to Heighten Pressure on North Korea   News Clips0:40 Airstrikes Resume in Syria   News Clips0:54 Merkel Welcomes Obama to Germany   Business0:40 Footage of Man in Cake Dispute © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Business   Like a Kid on Christmas. Advertisement By John E. Bennett Apr 9, 2014 The New York Times Crossword is available through subscription only. WEDNESDAY’S PUZZLE — We have another debut today, and John E. Bennett poses a question for us: WHAT’S IN THE BOXES? He says that this question can be asked either by a customs officer or a kid on Christmas morning, which is true, but he also leaves us some BOX-like meta entries (in the circled squares if you are solving in Across Lite, and in shaded squares everywhere else) that can have the word BOX after them. Missed it? They are MAIL, GEAR, PILL, SAND, SHOE and SALT. In addition to this admirable Wednesday theme, I liked some of the long entries, like ICE CUBE, WATER SNAKE, FIRST LIGHT and WORDINESS (I wouldn’t know anything about that). Clue of the Day is “Proposer’s prop?” for KNEE. Awww, how romantic …. Let’s meet Mr. Bennett: I am an architect, but mostly retired now. About 4 years ago while I was still working in a Seattle architectural office, I had a three-day weekend to kill while my wife was away for a few days. I decided it would be fun to try my hand at designing a crossword puzzle, since I enjoyed doing them so much. Without any computerized assistance, I got into trying to work out a theme of literal words that do what they describe, like BACKTRACK going in reverse, etc. I just totally got into a zone and time stood still for most of the three days. I knew I was hooked! Ever since then I realized that crossword constructing would have to be a part of my life. Of course my goal, which I knew was a long shot, was to get a puzzle some day in The New York Times. I recognized fairly early on that, without a computer program, I would spend 99% of my time trying to just get basic word fills to work out. After installing a crossword program I was off and running! Now I need to always have a puzzle somewhere in progress or I feel like something is missing in my life! The thing I find so satisfying about crossword constructing in my retirement (I like “crossword designing” better; “constructing” is what the contractor, or constructor, does after something is designed) is that for me it is a great substitute for architecture. Designing crossword puzzles is really not unlike designing buildings. You need an overarching concept or theme like “WHAT’S IN THE BOXES?” followed by a development of elements that support or relate to that theme (6 symmetrical letter groups), which then have to be worked into a structural network of support elements (like black squares). The supporting structure needs to have a predictable consistency (like symmetry) and needs to be relatively efficient (no more than 43 squares) and placed in locations that will allow the theme to be accommodated in a seamless and logical manner. As with a building design, everything must meet code (like no more than 78 clues and no words less than 3 letters) and also comply with acceptable industry conventions (no off-color or depressing terms, etc.) Beyond meeting the functional aspects of the design the main ingredient, just like in architecture, is in the creativity used in producing an end product that will be more than just the some of its parts. And, of course, the design has to be approved by the “the Owner” who uses and pays for the design services and who in this case happens to be Will Shortz! The inspiration for the “WHAT’S IN THE BOXES” puzzle was the result of thinking about what every crossword puzzle has in common for the every puzzler. Broken down to its very basics, the question for the puzzler is always trying to figure out what IS in each of the boxes. This puzzle takes it to the next fractal up by making larger “boxes” and then having all 6 of them also be types of boxes. Welcome, Mr. Bennett, and hope you bring us even more presents soon. Your thoughts? Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. David Kahn puts us through the wringer.Read more… Emily Cox and Henry Rathvon offer us a challenging cryptic crossword puzzle.Read more… A place for solvers to discuss and ask questions about the “A Little Variety” suite of puzzles.Read more… Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Food   How to Make Great Pizza Dough. Channels & Shows Home Search Food Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Food How to Make Great Pizza Dough By Brandon Cruz | Apr. 8, 2014 | 3:45 Anthony Falco of Roberta’s in Bushwick, Brooklyn, shows Sam Sifton how to make restaurant-style pizza dough at home. Related: article: A Little Pizza Homework Show More PlaylistUp Next in Food Next → Melissa Clark Food2:08 Coconut Cluster Granola   International1:04 McDonald’s Copycat in Separatist Ukraine Melissa Clark Food1:51 Green Garlic Tabbouleh   Food1:46 Beer-Brined Roast Chicken | Taste Makers   Taste Makers6:32 Finding Your Flavors in the Kitchen | Taste Makers   Food1:12 Tomatillo Pineapple Salsa | Taste Makers   Taste Makers5:40 Growing Organics ‘Sin Fronteras’ | Taste Makers   Food1:16 Jollof Rice | Taste Makers   Taste Makers6:01 Nigerian Food, Crash-and-Burn Style | Taste Makers Melissa Clark Food2:33 Chicken and Artichokes © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Foreign   Image of the Day: April 8. Advertisement   India’s national elections began April 7 and will continue on nine separate dates until May 12, with results expected to be announced on May 16. The vote is the world’s largest, with 814 million eligible voters set to choose 543 members of the lower house of Parliament. The other two seats will be appointed by the president. This election is widely considered to be India’s most consequential since 1977. India Ink will be moving to the World page of The New York Times. Read more… A memorial ceremony at the Imphal War Cemetery in Manipur to honor the soldiers who died during World War II.Read more… The newly elected prime minister reaches out to the public in a blog post about his first 30 days in office.Read more… Newborns whose mothers are unable to breastfeed are given stored breast milk to protect them from potentially life-threatening infection.Read more… In the final stage of a long decline, Hindustan Motors announced in May that it would suspend production of the Ambassador, a car that was once synonymous with style and status.Read more… This report on India from the journalists of The New York Times and a pool of talented writers in India and beyond provides unbiased, authoritative reporting on the country and its place in the world. India Ink also strives to be a virtual meeting point for discussion of this complex, fast-changing democracy – its politics, economy, culture and everyday life. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Science   Hospitals Safer Than Homes for Births Sign Up for the Running Email. Advertisement A new analysis suggests that giving birth in a hospital is considerably safer than having a baby at home or in a birthing center. Researchers analyzed data collected by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention from 2006 to 2009 on almost 14 million births, including 130,000 non-hospital deliveries. Their results appear online in The American Journal of Obstetrics & Gynecology. They examined both early death (within seven days of birth) and neonatal death (within 28 days) among singleton full-term babies without congenital malformations. No matter how they parsed the numbers, babies born outside hospitals had higher rates of death. Over all, babies delivered by midwives at home had nearly four times the risk for death compared with those delivered by hospital-based midwives, with the risk highest if the birth was the woman’s first. With 25,000 home births per year in the United States, this means about 23 additional neonatal deaths annually. Babies delivered by midwives in freestanding birthing centers had more than twice the risk for death compared with those delivered by midwives in hospitals. Compared with midwife-attended births in hospitals, doctor-attended births had higher mortality, almost certainly because the most complicated births are generally handled by physicians. When a birth was handled by others — policemen, taxi drivers and so on — the death rate was four times that of hospital births. The researchers write that these results almost certainly underestimate the actual neonatal death rates in home and birthing center deliveries, because infants with complications are often transferred to hospitals, and the C.D.C. counts any subsequent death as a hospital outcome. The lead author, Dr. Amos Grünebaum, a professor of obstetrics and gynecology at Weill Cornell Medical College, strongly discourages giving birth at home. “We need to make hospitals provide some of the amenities you have at home,” he said. “We need to make hospitals more like homes instead of making homes more like hospitals.” Your health questions answered by Times journalists and experts. Your Questions | All » Get Well's Running email for practical tips, expert advice, exclusive content and a bit of motivation delivered to your inbox every week to help you on your running journey. Coming soon. How much do you know about the amazing things that go on in your gut? Take our quiz to find out about the creepy, crawly critters living in your home. What surface is the most friendly to the flu virus? Where’s the best place to stand when you’re talking to a sick person? How does sleep affect health, relationships and well-being? The “Reading the Mind in the Eyes Test” measures ability to understand others’ emotional states. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   Logano Wins on the Last Lap in Texas. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content Skip to navigation View mobile version The New York Times Auto Racing|Logano Wins on the Last Lap in Texas Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go http://nyti.ms/1gGrUWJ Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Supported by Auto Racing | Sports Briefing Logano Wins on the Last Lap in Texas By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 8, 2014 Continue reading the main story Share This Page Continue reading the main story Joey Logano passed Jeff Gordon on the last lap to win the Duck Commander 500 in Fort Worth. Brad Keselowski, going for his second win of the Nascar Sprint Cup season, was penalized for speeding on pit road. (AP) A version of this brief appears in print on April 8, 2014, on page B15 of the New York edition with the headline: Logano Wins in Texas. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Continue reading the main story What's Next Loading... Go to Home Page » Site Index The New York Times Site Index Navigation News World U.S. Politics N.Y. Business Tech Science Health Sports Education Obituaries Today's Paper Corrections Opinion Today's Opinion Op-Ed Columnists Editorials Contributing Writers Op-Ed Contributors Opinionator Letters Sunday Review Taking Note Room for Debate Public Editor Video: Opinion Arts Today's Arts Art & Design ArtsBeat Books Dance Movies Music N.Y.C. Events Guide Television Theater Video: Arts Living Automobiles Crossword Food Education Fashion & Style Health Jobs Magazine N.Y.C. Events Guide Real Estate T Magazine Travel Weddings & Celebrations Listings & More Classifieds Tools & Services Times Topics Public Editor N.Y.C. Events Guide Blogs Multimedia Photography Video NYT Store Times Journeys Subscribe Manage My Account Subscribe Subscribe Times Insider Home Delivery Digital Subscriptions NYT Opinion Crossword Email Newsletters Alerts Gift Subscriptions Corporate Subscriptions Education Rate Mobile Applications Replica Edition International New York Times Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Travel   TripAdvisor Expands Environmental Rating Program. Advertisement International travelers looking for a certain amount of “green” in their accommodations can now turn to TripAdvisor for help. The hotel review and booking website recently expanded its GreenLeaders program, which evaluates a property’s ecological and environmental friendliness (or “green” practices), to include properties Canada, Britain, Ireland, Germany, France, Italy and Spain, in addition to those in the United States. Intense interest from both users and hotel owners showed that rating a hotel’s level of sympathy toward the environment would be a welcome on the site, Jennifer Rushmore, Trip Advisor’s director of responsible travel, said. Developed by the company’s responsible travel team, with the assistance of the Environmental Protection Agency’s Energy Star program, the United States Green Building Council and the United Nations Environment Program, the 50-question application covers a hotel’s practices in areas like energy, waste, water, products, landscaping, irrigation and innovation. The application is reviewed by an algorithm, and then in person by a member of the team. If deemed ecologically up to snuff, the property is then awarded a bronze, silver, gold or platinum designation, depending on how many green practices it has incorporated into its operations. Since the GreeenLeaders’ filter’s inauguration in the United States in April 2013, TripAdvisor has seen more than 200,000 searches using it, Ms. Rushmore said. Vital to its success, she said, is transparency. Users can view a detailed description of each GreenLeader’s practices on the site. They can also comment on those practices or give TripAdvisor a heads up if they believe the property has misrepresented itself. If necessary, a third-party auditor will be hired to conduct another evaluation, she said. The team spent a good part of the last year working with environmental groups like the Carbon Trust in Britain and Canada’s International Center for Responsible Tourism, making sure the survey made sense in other countries. It was always intended to be offered internationally, Ms. Rushmore said. “In fact, the minute we launched in the U.S., we were getting calls from hotels all around the world, particularly in Europe and Canada,” she said. There are many green hotel evaluation programs out there for a long time , she added,  but what sets this one apart is its scale. “We have 260 million users a month, so no one else has really been able to communicate about green practices with such an enormous user base,” Ms. Rushmore said. “What we’re really trying to do is make something that has been niche in the industry into a mainstream activity.” In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
U.S.   Cuba Project Defended at Senate Hearing. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Video Cuba Project Defended at Senate Hearing Apr. 9, 2014 | 2:34 The administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, Dr. Rajiv Shah, defended his agency’s social media project in Cuba to Senator Patrick J. Leahy of Vermont. Show More PlaylistUp Next in Video Next → Op-Docs: Season 5 9:23 I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked   Video1:08 Hitting all the Right Notes Op-Docs: Season 5 13:33 Manufacturing China’s Future Op-Docs: Season 5 6:05 Fashion vs. Art   Video0:56 Excerpt: ‘The Father’   Video0:33 Excerpt: ‘Exit Strategy’ Op-Docs: Season 5 7:19 A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race   Video1:58 Excerpt: ‘Antlia Pneumatica’   News Clips: Europe1:20 Officials React to Panama Papers   News Clips: Europe3:47 Mossack Fonseca on Data Leak © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Business   Day Trip Destination. Advertisement By David Steinberg Apr 10, 2014 The New York Times Crossword is available through subscription only. THURSDAY’S PUZZLE — I thought this one was relatively easy for a Thursday puzzle and there wasn’t much of a trick to the theme, but I did enjoy all the FLAGS waving at me. The theme hangs together very well, and the cluing is tricky. David Steinberg is back, and today we get to enjoy a ride past the six kinds of FLAGS he has hidden in his puzzle, like a cruciverbal version of Disney’s “It’s a Small World” ride, but with fewer animatronic dolls shrieking at us. It turns out that we’re being taken instead to SIX FLAGS, a “popular day trip destination,” and we get to see all six of them: a BLACK FLAG, an AMERICAN FLAG, a RED FLAG, a CHECKERED FLAG, a WHITE FLAG and a PIRATE FLAG. I will admit that I got caught up at the ASHCAN/U-BOAT section in the northeast, because it was a cross-referenced pair of clues and I hate those, but mostly because I was blessed to have grown up during peace time and just wasn’t familiar with the term ASHCAN as a weapon. Another trap for me lay at 19 Across, because as soon as I read the lyrics “Helter skelter in a summer swelter,” my brain conflated it with the song “Blinded By the Light“, which was made famous by Manfred Mann. It turns out that it’s a lyric from “AMERICAN PIE.” For some reason, I got a kick out of the fact that it has taken this long for a phrase like CHECKERED PAST to make its debut in The New York Times. Television star RED SKELTON also makes his debut in The New York Times crossword puzzle, although he appeared in an acrostic from 2008. PIRATE RADIO, another great phrase, is also new. Let’s find out how Mr. Steinberg is doing: I constructed the first version of this puzzle in December 2012, intending to run it in The Orange County Register, because Six Flags Magic Mountain is a major Southern California attraction, and I’m always short on crosswords with themes that tie into California. I was pleased with the way the puzzle turned out, so when I discovered that Six Flags also has a branch in New York called Great Escape, I decided to submit this one to The New York Times instead. Will liked the idea, but didn’t feel that green flag was as in-the-language as the other five flag phrases, so I suggested replacing my green entry with a black one (as in Black Flag, the insecticide). Will felt this would be an improvement, but still had concerns about a handful of entries in the nonthematic fill, particularly LGE and, ironically, OCR. I added two more cheater squares and produced a fill that we were both happier with, so I proceeded to reclue entries that had been changed. Assuming this puzzle would run on a Tuesday or Wednesday, I wrote up a set of midweek-level clues, erring on the side of easiness, and sent the puzzle back to Will. He told me he planned to run the puzzle on a Thursday and mentioned that I might want to beef up the clues a bit. My favorite of the harder clues I wrote is “It might come with a bill” for MINT, though my favorite clue in the puzzle is definitely Will’s “Made it?” for TAGGED, which I had to stare at for quite some time before having that “Aha!” moment! Coincidentally, Will chose to run this puzzle the week of my AP Physics class field trip to . . . Six Flags! I hope you have as much fun solving this puzzle as I did hanging out with friends, consuming a pulled-pork sandwich, going on a few roller coasters, and thinking about physics, of course! Well, that was fun. Come back again soon and take us on another field trip, Mr. Steinberg. Let’s rock over to the Friday puzzle with INXS’s “Suicide Blonde”: Your thoughts? Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. David Kahn puts us through the wringer.Read more… Emily Cox and Henry Rathvon offer us a challenging cryptic crossword puzzle.Read more… A place for solvers to discuss and ask questions about the “A Little Variety” suite of puzzles.Read more… Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   India Election Digest: April 10. Advertisement   What you need to know about India’s elections on Thursday: Voters in 11 states and three union territories go to the polls — Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Haryana, Jammu and Kashmir, Jharkhand, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Chandigarh, Lakshadweep and Delhi. With the small states out of the way, the big battle for votes begins. The Bharatiya Janata Party’s candidate for prime minister, Narendra Modi, whose marital status has been the subject of speculation, admits under oath that he is indeed married. News and analysis on the world’s largest election. Voters in the state of Delhi can get discounts at stores and restaurants if they show their ink-stained fingers as proof that they voted. The country’s oldest Islamic seminary bans politicians from entering its grounds until the elections are over. Political parties are urged to move beyond slogans on women’s issues. The Indian author Arundhati Roy argues that the country’s elections are about “who is the person that the corporates choose.” Bookies in Delhi say the odds favor Mr. Modi and his Bharatiya Janata Party. Many residents of a Tibetan refugee settlement in Delhi say they are being denied their voting rights. Fifteen villages in a remote area of Bihar will get to vote for the first time, now that the Central Reserve Police Force has cleared the area of Maoist insurgents. Investors have been pushing up the stocks of companies owned by Gautam S. Adani, a tycoon with close ties to Mr. Modi.   India’s national elections began April 7 and will continue on nine separate dates until May 12, with results expected to be announced on May 16. The vote is the world’s largest, with 814 million eligible voters set to choose 543 members of the lower house of Parliament. The other two seats will be appointed by the president. This election is widely considered to be India’s most consequential since 1977. India Ink will be moving to the World page of The New York Times. Read more… A memorial ceremony at the Imphal War Cemetery in Manipur to honor the soldiers who died during World War II.Read more… The newly elected prime minister reaches out to the public in a blog post about his first 30 days in office.Read more… Newborns whose mothers are unable to breastfeed are given stored breast milk to protect them from potentially life-threatening infection.Read more… In the final stage of a long decline, Hindustan Motors announced in May that it would suspend production of the Ambassador, a car that was once synonymous with style and status.Read more… This report on India from the journalists of The New York Times and a pool of talented writers in India and beyond provides unbiased, authoritative reporting on the country and its place in the world. India Ink also strives to be a virtual meeting point for discussion of this complex, fast-changing democracy – its politics, economy, culture and everyday life. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Health   How Much Medicare Pays For Your Doctor’s Care. Advertisement Advertisement Editor’s note: This form has been temporarily disabled as of Oct. 12, 2015, pending an upgrade to the underlying database. Meanwhile, the data is available from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. Use the form below to find a doctor or other medical professional among the more than 800,000 health care providers that received payments in 2012 from Medicare Part B, which covers doctor visits, tests and other treatments. Payments may also cover overhead, such as staff salaries and drug costs. In some cases, when doctors work as salaried employees of group practices, the payments that show up under their names go to their institutions. Related Articles: Sliver of Medicare Doctors Get Big Share of Payouts, The Medicare Data’s Pitfalls APRIL 9, 2014 Source: The information presented here is from a database released by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. The database excluded, for privacy reasons, any procedures that a doctor performed on 11 or fewer patients. The total reimbursements for each doctor does not include those procedures either. Results shown above include only individuals like doctors, nurses or technicians but not organizations like Walgreens. While some providers could have multiple offices, the address shown is the main address indicated in the database. Descriptions of the medical procedures are from the Current Procedural Terminology (CPT®) code set, which is copyrighted by the American Medical Association.
Science   When the Criticisms Never End. Advertisement Five nights a week, Amanda H. and her husband drove to her parents’ upscale continuing care retirement community in suburban Boston. She could feel her anxiety build as they rode the elevator upstairs. For two hours, they ferried dinner from the dining room, transferred it to china, set the table. Amanda hand-fed her father, whose neurological disorder, multiple system atrophy, makes it difficult for him to maneuver a fork. “It’s unsightly and embarrassing for him,” she said, so her parents ate in their independent living apartment. Then Amanda’s husband helped ready her father for the night. He cannot stand unassisted, so his son-in-law helped him undress, brush his teeth, urinate and transfer unsteadily into bed — “a laborious process,” said Amanda, whose asked that her last name be withheld so as preserve her parents’ privacy. This was not how she’d envisioned this phase of her life. Her own daughter is grown, and at 56, she said, “I felt ready to turn a corner.” She had contemplated volunteering as a tutor for English-language learners.  Instead, along with the evening routine, Amanda drives her father, 86, to medical appointments at least weekly. She delivers groceries so the private aide who helps in the morning can prepare breakfast. Amanda pays her parents’ bills, prepares their taxes. She spent months cleaning out the house where they’d lived for 45 years, “unearthing things from every cupboard and drawer.” She and her husband also endure her father’s relentless low-level criticism. The food isn’t hot enough. The items placed on his night table are an inch too far away. “You’re asked to help, and then you’re found fault with,” she said. “It’s so chronic, built into our every interaction. Our whole lives, he’s never said, ‘Good job.’” Her two brothers live several hours away — not coincidentally, she thinks — so she bears the brunt of her parents’ care and their discontent. Her mother, 90, is declining as well. Other adult children, Amanda knows, have to sacrifice far more. Many can’t afford any paid help. Her parents, maddeningly, have plenty of money yet resist any suggestion that might improve the situation. Could the agency that sends aides two nights a week send them more often? Yes, at 6:30 p.m. But her parents want them at 7 p.m. So, no. Could a different agency provide aides at 7 p.m.? No, her parents like the helpers they have. The whole purpose of a continuing care retirement community is to provide more help as residents need it. What about moving from independent to assisted living? “That’s horrifying to them,” Amanda said, largely because they’d have to give up the second bedroom fitted out as her father’s office. “Even though he spends very little time there now, that’s his identity,” she said. Amanda would like to discuss the conundrum with the facility’s social worker, but her parents already fear being compelled to move. “By alerting anyone to their condition, we’d bring unwanted attention,” Amanda said. “I feel like I would be snitching.” The Tyrannical Parent (my phrase, not hers) wants and demands help, but only on his own terms. Other people must compromise; he won’t. The losses that can accompany aging make him ever more dictatorial about the few things he can still control. His weary children may recognize the dynamic, but it’s hard to live with, nonetheless. Amanda, feeling trapped, drives home after dinner and drinks more wine than she used to. And she has cracked two teeth — the result, her dentist says, of clenching her jaw. This is a job for Super Social Worker: Barbara Moscowitz, senior geriatric social worker at Massachusetts General Hospital. Ms. Moscowitz sees this situation frequently with long-criticized children. “They come to caregiving with the hope, conscious or unconscious, that they can resolve this: ‘If I provide good enough care, maybe I’ll be told I’m loved. I’ll be told thank you,’” she said. At the same time, “the parents may be holding on to their patterns even more tenaciously,” Ms. Moscowitz added. “So you see the family getting stuck.” Getting unstuck isn’t simple. She recommends enlisting an objective third party, a professional who can assess the parents’ situation. A nurse or social worker for the retirement community might serve, or a geriatric care manager (who works directly for the family, so administrators wouldn’t know she was on the case). Were she the mediator, Ms. Moscowitz said, “We’d write a plan: This is what they need, this is what they have, this is what we can do.” The outsider may be able to recruit allies to break the logjam. “Who might the mother and father listen to?” Ms. Moscowitz asked. “A clergyman? Their primary care doctor? The parents’ own siblings?” Sometimes, the children who got away can help. Ms. Moscowitz often arranges conference calls with all the siblings, to establish what’s needed and to solicit support for the one most under the gun, like Amanda. “They may give the daughter permission not to continue in this way,” Ms. Moscowitz said. For the parent, she added, there’s often an unconscious fear. “If my daughter knows someone else will feed me dinner, she won’t see me. I’ll be forgotten.” A caregiver manipulated by Tyrannosaurus parens can assure her parents that she will still visit and help, that she won’t withdraw. But she can decline to provide nightly services for people who have other resources. As it happened, not long after Amanda first emailed me, she got a call from the retirement community, whose  staff had noticed that her parents no longer used the dining room. The social worker had met with them and, without apparent resistance, arranged an hour’s care from private aides each evening. So Amanda’s husband will regain his evenings; the aide will take over bedtime prep. But an hour is not enough time to provide all the help needed, so Amanda will still go feed her father — now, seven nights a week. “It’s not the end of the world,” she told me. “I should be able to handle that.” Paula Span is the author of “When the Time Comes: Families With Aging Parents Share Their Struggles and Solutions.” The blog is ending, but our coverage of caregiving and aging is not. The New Old Age will run as a twice-monthly column by Paula Span on nytimes.com and frequently in Science Times. Read more… At many nursing homes and assisted living places, a resident’s passing may be hardly noted.Read more… Circumstances had changed, and all these documents needed to change, too. Read more… Lifestyle modification prevents Type 2 diabetes even more effectively in the elderly than in middle-aged patients.Read more… Julianne Moore gives a wonderful performance in “Still Alice,” but the film skirts the truth about dementia.Read more… Thanks to the marvels of medical science, our parents are living longer than ever before. Most will spend years dependent on others for the most basic needs. That burden falls to their baby boomer children. The New Old Age blog explored this unprecedented intergenerational challenge. Paula Span will continue to write New Old Age columns twice monthly at nytimes.com/health and the conversation will continue on Twitter (@paula_span) and Facebook. A few medical institutions have opened their doors to patients’ own dogs and cats. Scheduling and medication errors plague patients with Parkinson's. Dementia doesn't respect public stature. Is there life after caregiving, and if so what it is like? Comprehensive reference and special reports about diseases, conditions, tests, injuries and surgeries. Useful information, tools, and links to organizations around the Web. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   Cooks Do It All on Snowboard Expeditions. Channels & Shows Home Search Sports Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Sports Cooks Do It All on Snowboard Expeditions By Teton Gravity Research | Apr. 9, 2014 | 3:33 During expeditions to Alaska, Jeremy Jones and Teton Gravity Research look for team members who are as versatile as they are dependable. No one embodies this better than the crew’s camp cook. Show More PlaylistUp Next in Sports Next →   The Royal Family1:33 Prince Harry Promotes Invictus Games   Europe0:60 Police Accept Blame for Hillsborough Disaster   Europe0:46 Families Sing After Hillsborough Ruling   Sports1:24 UConn Reflects on Record-Breaking Win   News Clips: Sports2:20 John John Florence Wins ‘the Eddie’   Sports1:51 ‘Human Sacrifice’: Debating Football’s Future   Blood and Sport3:32 Ken Stabler and C.T.E.   Sports5:01 Addicted to a Fantasy   Paris Attacks1:51 French Soccer Team Sings National Anthem   Sports6:27 Drone Racing Dreams © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Travel   Designing an Eco-Friendly Honeymoon. Advertisement Cayuga Sustainable Hospitality, a Central American eco-lodge operator with eight properties, is looking for newlyweds to help perfect the “eco-honeymoon” experience. Cayuga is offering what could be called eco-internships to three couples. Applications are available on the Cayuga website, and the internships will cover all costs related to lodging, meals and activities (airfare and property transfers are not provided). The selected couples will act as designers and provide recommendations on experiences like settings for romantic dinners; they will also test bamboo linens and consider details like “is air-conditioning really necessary on an eco-honeymoon?” said Hans Pfister, president and co-owner of Cayuga. The Cayuga lodges are in Costa Rica and Nicaragua; the couples can customize their itinerary according to their geographic interests and across any number of properties for seven to 10 days. Mr. Pfister said that because the hotels and lodges were developed with sustainability in mind, amenities like organic wine, farm to table cuisine, biodegradable toiletries and organic linens are a given. The idea behind the internship is to determine which features (including community-enhancing activities couples can do while enjoying their quality time) can be included in romantic packages. “Honeymooners want to have authentic experiences that they can remember together,” said Mr. Pfister, who noted that couples are increasingly asking not only for tandem massages and wellness experiences but also for ways to help local schools, plant a tree in a reserve or assist with organized beach cleanups. Submissions must be received by May 1 and the chosen honeymooners will be announced by May 30. In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
U.S.   Obama Mourns Victims at Fort Hood. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Video Obama Mourns Victims at Fort Hood Apr. 9, 2014 | 1:33 President Obama delivered remarks at the base in Texas and mourned with the families and uniformed comrades of those killed in the shooting last week. Related: article: Again, Obama Offers Comfort at Fort Hood After Soldiers Are Killed Show More PlaylistUp Next in Video Next → Op-Docs: Season 5 9:23 I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked   Video1:08 Hitting all the Right Notes Op-Docs: Season 5 13:33 Manufacturing China’s Future Op-Docs: Season 5 6:05 Fashion vs. Art   Video0:56 Excerpt: ‘The Father’   Video0:33 Excerpt: ‘Exit Strategy’ Op-Docs: Season 5 7:19 A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race   Video1:58 Excerpt: ‘Antlia Pneumatica’   News Clips: Europe1:20 Officials React to Panama Papers   News Clips: Europe3:47 Mossack Fonseca on Data Leak © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Business   Things Worn at Home. Advertisement By Peter Wentz Apr 11, 2014 The New York Times Crossword is available through subscription only. FRIDAY’S PUZZLE — This one was challenging, as Friday puzzles tend to be, but wow, was it worth it. There is so much good stuff in today’s puzzle by Peter Wentz. I just had to work hard to establish a toehold in order to find it. When you’re staring at a blank grid and trying hard not to be intimidated, it’s a bit maddening to fill in DARTH for “‘Star Wars’ villain name” because, well, it fits, when the answer turns out to be the equally fitting VADER. And it was disconcerting to realize that the “‘Girls’ home” is actually HBO when NYC fits just as well. But once I got on board with Mr. Wentz, the puzzle revealed itself to be glorious. BLUE JEANS as an “Alternative to cords,” VELVET ROPE clued to mess me up by calling it a “line outside a club, maybe,” Teddy Roosevelt’s SQUARE DEAL, KINESCOPE (a word I’ve always loved because the technology allowed me to watch television programs that aired before my time), FACEMASKS as a devilishly misdirected answer to “Things worn at home?” (think the masks worn by baseball catchers), and holy mother of crosswords, we have a new ZOLAESQUE: Mr. Wentz has added KAFKAESQUE to the New York Times crossword puzzle repertoire. And FATCATS and EAT AWAY and so much more. Don’t miss this one. You’ll work for it, but you’ll be glad you did. Nicely done, Mr. Wentz. Please come back soon. Let’s hear from him: This was one of those rare themeless puzzles where my construction and seed entries began at the center rather than at 1-Across. I fondly recall ZOLAESQUE from “Wordplay” and, partly inspired by that [See?! What did I tell you? –D.A.], found KAFKAESQUE could fit nicely among other fun phrases and went from there. The grid is a little closed-off, which allowed me to first insert the marquee central answers and then attack the quadrant of corners individually. The NW corner was actually the last filled, and much of that time was spent trying to find a solid entry at 3-Down that could also support quality entries around it. A little bit of research led to VELVET ROPE, whose clue I wish I could take credit for. For the last year or two, I’ve been focusing on attempting to create perfect Patrick Berry-style (BERRYESQUE?) grids free of clutter, and while for this one I’m happy with every entry of six letters or longer, those few ORKs, TETs, and KEAs still irk me. Thankfully they’re not terribly obscure, but not ideal. That staircase of S’s also isn’t the best, but they all end common phrases without awkward or contrived plurals, so I can more than live with the result. Overall though, I am very happy with how this puzzle turned out! There’s definitely a joy in creating something lots of people will hopefully enjoy, but there’s also no harm in always striving to do better. Makes for even better crosswords down the line, which benefits everyone! It’s been a while since we sang the blues here on Wordplay, but the sight of B.B. KING at 9 Across inspired me. Pay your respects to the king of the blues and his consort Lucille: Your thoughts? Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. David Kahn puts us through the wringer.Read more… Emily Cox and Henry Rathvon offer us a challenging cryptic crossword puzzle.Read more… A place for solvers to discuss and ask questions about the “A Little Variety” suite of puzzles.Read more… Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   Image of the Day: April 10. Advertisement   India’s national elections began April 7 and will continue on nine separate dates until May 12, with results expected to be announced on May 16. The vote is the world’s largest, with 814 million eligible voters set to choose 543 members of the lower house of Parliament. The other two seats will be appointed by the president. This election is widely considered to be India’s most consequential since 1977. India Ink will be moving to the World page of The New York Times. Read more… A memorial ceremony at the Imphal War Cemetery in Manipur to honor the soldiers who died during World War II.Read more… The newly elected prime minister reaches out to the public in a blog post about his first 30 days in office.Read more… Newborns whose mothers are unable to breastfeed are given stored breast milk to protect them from potentially life-threatening infection.Read more… In the final stage of a long decline, Hindustan Motors announced in May that it would suspend production of the Ambassador, a car that was once synonymous with style and status.Read more… This report on India from the journalists of The New York Times and a pool of talented writers in India and beyond provides unbiased, authoritative reporting on the country and its place in the world. India Ink also strives to be a virtual meeting point for discussion of this complex, fast-changing democracy – its politics, economy, culture and everyday life. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Home   Homeowners, Start Your Engines. Advertisement Advertisement The Pragmatist By BOB TEDESCHI APRIL 9, 2014 Every November there comes a day when I race into the shed with my trusty lawn mower, fling it into a corner and let loose a fist pump that would give Tiger Woods chills. Is it the final cut of the year? Yup. But you never truly know, so it seems like a good idea not to drain the gas, change the oil or do whatever it is the read-the-manual folks do. Then come the April showers of expletives, as I yank the starter cord for the 200th time in a vain effort to get the mower going. Sometimes the shouting works, and I run the machine for a few months with old oil and a dirty air filter and a dull blade, until it dies. Every couple of years I give up and buy a new mower, because it’s only slightly more expensive than paying for repairs and a lawn service while the mechanic fixes the engine. This year will be different. I’ve called on three mower maintenance experts for tips on how to prepare a machine for the coming season, and how to make the end-of-season storage chores easy and safe. I also tried out a few newer mowers that were designed for easy storage and maintenance, including a sweet battery-powered model. My advisers were Paul Dempsey, author of “Small Gas Engine Repair”; Kris Kiser, president of the Outdoor Power Equipment Institute, an industry trade association; and Dana Hudson, who manages Home Depot’s lawn mower business. They said that if you want to save your sanity and your rotator cuff, you first need to get a little geeky about gasoline and ethanol, which is mixed into almost all of the gas in the United States. “Ethanol is basically murder for a small engine,” Ms. Hudson said. “It takes less than 30 days for it to separate from the gas, and then if it sits, it’ll rust your key engine parts.” Advertisement I should know. My latest mower, a 2012 Toro with the phrase “Guaranteed to Start” posted on the motor, died last spring during the season’s first cut. The mechanic charged me around $50 to revamp a carburetor that had been corroded by ethanol the previous winter. And no, he said, the “guarantee” did not cover ethanol-related issues. To avoid similar problems, my advisers had three suggestions. First, they said, buy ethanol stabilizer, which keeps the ethanol from separating from the gas. Advertisement My panelists said they could not recommend one brand of ethanol stabilizer over another, but Mr. Kiser said that some engine manufacturers now sell their own brand of stabilizers, which, they say, are designed for their equipment. For instance, Briggs & Stratton, which builds engines for many mower brands, makes Advanced Formula 5-in-1 Fuel Treatment and Stabilizer. (An 8-ounce bottle treats roughly 40 gallons of fuel, and costs around $8.) An easier but more expensive solution is ethanol-free gasoline, like TruFuel, which the company says can remain in a tank for two years without degrading. (A 32-ounce container costs around $6.) Or you could forget about fuel and buy a battery-powered mower. This year, two manufacturers, Kobalt and EGO, released lithium-ion battery-powered mowers with 20-inch cutting diameters and batteries that last 45 minutes. (The EGO has a 56-volt battery and sells for $500; the Kobalt has a 40-volt battery and is $400.) The 20-inch cutting range of these new machines is on the small side of the walk-behind mower market, but it’s not so small that it’s a significant liability. I tried an EGO mower last week, and it was downright lovely. The motor was about as loud as a Shop-Vac: not whisper-quiet, but much quieter than a gas-powered mower, and quiet enough that I could cut the lawn in the evening without raising my neighbors’ blood pressure. There was no fresh grass to cut in my yard, but the EGO mower plowed through low piles of leaves with ease. It also has LEDs for evening cutting, and is designed to be stored vertically to save room. Advertisement Then I tried the new Toro Recycler mower with its SmartStow engine, which also stores vertically. It has a 22-inch cutting range and costs $350. It’s a nice option for those who lack ample storage space but don’t want to sacrifice cutting range. Battery-powered mowers were even more enticing to me after I wasted three hours trying to prepare my old Toro for the season. Thanks to my ethanol-related disaster last year, I had at least stored the mower with ethanol-free gas in November, so I had reasonable expectations that it would start easily this year. What to do before cutting the grass. But since my machine was two years old, my panelists suggested replacing the oil, spark plug and air filter, and they said I should either replace the blade or sharpen it before I started the season. I had never removed a blade from a mower, mostly because I was worried that I might bungle the job and end up with sliced ankles or worse. Mr. Dempsey said I was right to be concerned, and he offered a few tips for safe D.I.Y. blade maintenance. First, he said, remove the spark plug before beginning: “Otherwise, if you move the blade you could start the engine.” You should change the plug every couple of years anyway, Mr. Dempsey said, but if you keep it, twist the spark plug wire away from the plug for added safety, because disconnected spark plug wires tend to bend back toward their original location. Next, drain the oil from the machine. Some mowers have a drain beneath the engine, but most require you to turn the mower on its side or drain the oil with a siphon. I used a siphon, and it was 30 minutes of messy misery. (Tip: Before disconnecting the spark plug, run the mower for a few minutes so the oil flows freely.) After that, drain the gas tank. If you rush the way I did, there will be oil in the siphon, so you’ll need to throw away your expensive ethanol-free gas. Try not to think about it. Advertisement My mower’s manual suggested turning the mower on its side so that the air filter was facing up. Check your manual to see what’s correct for your mower. Next, double check to make sure the spark plug is disconnected, then brace the mower blade and remove the nut. Sharpen the blade yourself with a sharpening stone or buy a replacement for around $20. The next step is to buy a torque wrench and watch some YouTube videos on how to use it, because if your wrench is like mine, the instructions will be impenetrable. The torque wrench is crucial equipment, Mr. Dempsey said, because the nut must be tightened to exact specifications. After reinstalling the blade and tightening the nut with the fancy new wrench, refill the motor with fresh gas and oil. Now comes the fun part: changing the spark plug. This is usually simple, because your manual will tell you which one to buy. Mine did not, and I couldn’t remove the plug with a standard 5/8-inch spark plug wrench. My hardware store sold me the wrong plug, so I called a Toro dealer, which was out of them. The dealer suggested I try an auto-parts store, which sold me an aftermarket plug that came in standard size, not metric like the original one. The man at the auto parts store also sold me a standard spark plug wrench that, he said, would work. Wrong. Maybe because it was too bulky for the space allotted, or maybe because I started threading the new plug into the engine at the wrong angle, I stripped the engine’s threads. I stopped with one-fourth of the old threads remaining and ordered a stock spark plug for delivery. When it arrived, I turned it carefully into place and the engine miraculously started. Mission accomplished. But not so fast. I wondered if my semi-ruined threads posed a risk, and Doug Dougherty, the vice president for North America service at Briggs & Stratton, said the spark plug could conceivably explode out of the engine and injure someone. Next stop: my mechanic, who will charge me from $50 to $100 to restore the threads. Advertisement I’ve long coveted the ride-on mowers that several of my neighbors use as envy-generating weapons, but I have heard that such mowers are even harder to maintain than push mowers are. I have also heard that my bank account isn’t remotely big enough for a lawn tractor. Still, in an act of self-abuse, I tried a new John Deere X738, which costs more than $12,000. It features a new quick-release design on the mower deck, which makes it easier to lubricate the deck and replace the belts. The quick-release mechanism worked as advertised, and at least five neighbors failed to conceal their envy as they drove by. If I stop replacing push mowers, I may save enough for a $12,000 tractor one day. When will that day come? In 48 years. I hope my neighbors are around to see it. A version of this article appears in print on April 10, 2014, on page D1 of the New York edition with the headline: Homeowners, Start Your Engines. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe See More » Go to Home Page »
Movies   Mike Flanagan on ‘Oculus’. Channels & Shows Home Search Culture Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Culture Mike Flanagan on ‘Oculus’ By Mekado Murphy | Apr. 10, 2014 | 2:29 The director discusses his horror film about a haunted mirror. Related: article: Looking Glass Complications Show More PlaylistUp Next in Culture Next → This Week’s Movies Culture3:28 This Week’s Movies | May 6, 2016   U.S.0:22 Obama, Dancing With the Star (Wars)   Opinion6:58 Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics   Fashion1:13 Red Carpet Arrivals at the Met Ball   Culture3:07 Tony Nominations Are Announced This Week’s Movies Culture3:28 This Week’s Movies | April 29, 2016 Anatomy of a Scene Culture2:41 Anatomy | ‘The Man Who Knew Infinity’   Europe0:29 Big Ben to Be Silenced   Food1:12 Tomatillo Pineapple Salsa | Taste Makers   Taste Makers6:01 Nigerian Food, Crash-and-Burn Style | Taste Makers © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Science   Living With Cancer: Bedtime Issues Sign Up for the Running Email. Advertisement Susan Gubar writes about life with ovarian cancer. Like the other women in my cancer support group, I have been trying to salvage aspects of the person I had been before the diagnosis. In my case, I longed for the drugless sleep I enjoyed before I began having to take the sleeping pill Ambien. Ambien can cause amnesia, confusion, missteps and falls. I wanted to wean myself from dependency, to recover at least one aspect of the person I previously had been, so I began cutting the five-milligram pill in two, and then prepared to stop taking it altogether. Ever attentive, my husband, Don, suggested that I use an over-the-counter sleeping pill sold by at the grocery store in the transition. I wasn’t surprised to find myself leaving my bed at 12:28 a.m. to play computer Scrabble. What did discombobulate me was the heavy weight of sleep when it finally arrived: layers of dense batting that suffocated me even after I struggled back to muffled consciousness the next morning and then contended with a daylong hangover. It turns out that each pill has 25 milligrams of diphenhydramine HCI, the antihistamine in Benadryl. I gave up and went back to cutting the Ambien in half. Before diagnosis I never needed a sleeping pill. But my former self is gone — because of residual surgical damage and heightened anxiety about recurrence, but also because of the long-lasting aches and pains after chemotherapy. Gone, too, is my blithe confidence in my physical resiliency. The burden my diminishment places on my husband most distresses me. Without Don as my moral compass — how I worry that my needs exhaust him, now in his 80s! — I could not keep up the rigorous rounds of grocery shopping, cooking, laundry, garbage disposal, bill paying and hospital visits that we undertake together. And, most of all, how could I attain the buoyancy of spirit that comes from a shared joke, a tender caress, a collaborative recollection? For several of the younger women in my support group, surgery, radiation and chemotherapy brought about a dramatic disconnection from their previous selves: the early onset of menopause. Hot flashes, mood swings, inelastic skin and bone loss upset them, but less than a plummeting sex drive. Like me, they have intimacy with their partners; what they don’t have and want to have are orgasms. At a recent lunch meeting, one member of my group triumphantly displayed a gleaming silver bullet. We passed it around, wondering what it could be: thicker than a pencil and two inches long, it was too heavy to wear as a pendant. Laughing, she told us it came from an “adult fantasy store” and clicked a tiny switch so it vibrated in our palms. Amid an avalanche of talk about medications and creams, another woman described a consultation she had had with a sex researcher who had given her a bag with graduated dilators and a hot-pink gizmo called the Rabbit that, she admitted, put her off. “But the information helped,” she added. “Lovemaking is not what it was, but it did get better.” This young woman was appalled that no one in the medical establishment addressed the sexuality problems she had encountered. “Sex toys should not be lurid subjects avoided or addressed with a wink,” she said. “Hospitals need to provide informational packets as well as reminders that the mind is the biggest sexual organ. When radiation and chemotherapy end, there should be post-treatment counseling.” As she then confided her New Year’s resolution — to work with the local cancer center to redress the absence of remedies — I thought about the oddity of the problem. We are bombarded by hypersexualized images on the Internet and on television, but puritanism reigns in the offices of radiologists, oncologists and social workers. My support group friends had lost not just sleep, but pleasure and a significant aspect of their identities as women. Realizing that at different ages we mourn different losses, I reveled in my comrades’ gleeful efforts at recovery. Just that week a colleague closer to my age had said after treatment: “My life is so reduced. Who was I? Had I ever been the person I was?” At least my lunch mates could remember who they had been and were seeking routes of return. Susan Gubar is a distinguished emerita professor of English at Indiana University and the author of “Memoir of a Debulked Woman,” which explores her experience with ovarian cancer. Your health questions answered by Times journalists and experts. Your Questions | All » Get Well's Running email for practical tips, expert advice, exclusive content and a bit of motivation delivered to your inbox every week to help you on your running journey. Coming soon. How much do you know about the amazing things that go on in your gut? Take our quiz to find out about the creepy, crawly critters living in your home. What surface is the most friendly to the flu virus? Where’s the best place to stand when you’re talking to a sick person? How does sleep affect health, relationships and well-being? The “Reading the Mind in the Eyes Test” measures ability to understand others’ emotional states. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   Photos: The Making of the Masters. Advertisement Advertisement By LYNN ZINSERAPRIL 10, 2014 When Augusta National Golf Club opened in 1933, there were few hints at the grandeur of its future. Bobby Jones, having retired from golf as an amateur at age 28, wanted a place to play golf in private. After winning 13 major titles, he was swarmed at any golf course he strolled on to, so he sought a course of his own, where he could invite his friends to join as members. Clifford Roberts, an investment banker and friend, helped him acquire the 385 acres that would become Augusta National and together they steered their little club into history. They started the Augusta National Invitational in 1934, which would become the Masters and one of golf’s four majors. That status eventually rattled Augusta out of its most exclusionary membership policies: it invited its first black members in the 1990s and its first female ones in 2012. Its fate was transformed by the star golfers who used the Masters as their big stage, players like Byron Nelson, Sam Snead, Ben Hogan, Arnold Palmer, Jack Nicklaus and Tiger Woods. But the club has also tried to hang on to a bit of its old-time feel, as well as its lofty sense of self-importance. That, it seemed, began before the first golf ball was struck. Writing in 1933, The Associated Press described Augusta’s debut: “After three years of work the Augusta National Golf Club will officially open with a gala golf party bringing together famous personages of the golf and business world, Friday, Jan. 13, 1933, Augusta, Ga. The 18 hole course, built on a 385 acre nursery tract, is a veritable paradise of semitropical foliage. None other than Robert Tyre (Bobby) Jones, King of Golfers, and President of the club was behind every blue print and literally every shovel full of dirt during the construction of the course, collaborating with Dr. Alister MacKenzie, famous Scot Golf architect. Many of the 18 holes are prototypes of famous holes of the St. Andrews and North Berwick courses in Scotland and other courses throughout the world. This course, says President Jones, fulfills four fundamental requirements of golf. 1) It requires as much mental effort as it does golfing skill. 2) It gives the average player an excellent chance to do his best, while the expert must bring all his resources into play to keep within par 72. 3) It gives pleasure to the greatest number of golfers. 4) It contains natural hazards and more natural beauty than any course in the world. The Augusta National Golf Club is nonprofitmaking and under the Jones influence will be used for golf and golf only — no social functions being permitted.” An earlier version of this article misstated the number of major championship Bobby Jones won. It was 13, not 31. Go to Home Page »
Travel   Upgrades for Historic Luxury Hotels. Advertisement After restoring some of its most historic hotels last year, including the Gritti Palace in Venice and the Hotel Maria Cristina in San Sebastian, Spain, the Luxury Collection from Starwood Hotels & Resorts announced a second round of upgrades, this time to two more historic properties, the Hotel Imperial in Vienna and the Excelsior Hotel Gallia in Milan, and two more-modern ones including Santa Marina Resort in Mykonos, Greece, and Grand Hills in Broumana, Lebanon. The results of the initiative will be seen beginning this summer with the 75-room Santa Marina, featuring renovated guestrooms and beachfront restaurant, and the Hotel Imperial, originally built in 1863 as a royal palace, which will introduce a new restaurant, bar and event spaces. When they open in September and December, respectively, both the 1932-vintage Excelsior Hotel Gallia and the more contemporary Grand Hills will join the Luxury Collection. Some upgrades will address practical matters, such as Wi-Fi and plumbing. Others will restore original design features that were covered up over the years. All updates will emphasize interaction with their surroundings. Guests “want to be where locals are buzzing,” Paul James, global brand leader of the Luxury Collection, St. Regis Hotels & Resorts and W Hotels Worldwide, wrote in an email. Past efforts to connect guests with local life included a new street entrance to a bar at the Gritti Palace in Venice. “You will soon see something similar with Hotel Imperial where the entrance, connecting the hotel to the neighboring Musikverein, home to the Vienna Philharmonic, will be restored and reopened to provide a stately sense of arrival for maestros, musicians and guests,” Mr. James said. A version of this article appears in print on 04/20/2014, on page TR3 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Hotels: Sprucing Up History. In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
U.S.   NYT Now: Sylvia Mathews Burwell. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Video NYT Now: Sylvia Mathews Burwell By A.J. Chavar | Apr. 11, 2014 | 0:19 Michael D. Shear on President Obama’s new nominee for health secretary. Show More PlaylistUp Next in Video Next → Op-Docs: Season 5 9:23 I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked   Video1:08 Hitting all the Right Notes Op-Docs: Season 5 13:33 Manufacturing China’s Future Op-Docs: Season 5 6:05 Fashion vs. Art   Video0:56 Excerpt: ‘The Father’   Video0:33 Excerpt: ‘Exit Strategy’ Op-Docs: Season 5 7:19 A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race   Video1:58 Excerpt: ‘Antlia Pneumatica’   News Clips: Europe1:20 Officials React to Panama Papers   News Clips: Europe3:47 Mossack Fonseca on Data Leak © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Business   Alternative to Shoots. Advertisement SATURDAY’S PUZZLE — By my count, there were seven entries in this puzzle by Mel Rosen that I had to look up, but that’s O.K. I know I have to put in my time to get through a Saturday grid, and this was tough but doable. And the result was an enjoyable solve, so that makes it worthwhile in my book. You have to like a grid that opens with a newish phrase like COLBERT BUMP, the alleged — and slowly being proven — boost that politicians and celebrities get in their ratings after appearing on “The Colbert Report.” Mr. Colbert has just been selected to take over David Letterman’s chair, and it remains to be seen what he will be able to do for late-night television, especially when not playing his bombastic character. Still, I’m a big fan of his, and hope his arrival livens up that time slot. I also really liked the entry EVER SO SORRY right under it. In fact, there’s a lot of crunchy stuff here: MAO SUIT, DARK STARS, BACK BENCH, GEOCACHING, HEAT SENSORS, ARCTIC OCEAN, MYCOLOGISTS … you could break a tooth on some of these. PYE DOGS is a new term to me, and I wasn’t aware that FREON and ozone weren’t on speaking terms. I got ACC at 53 Down, but am still not sure what the context is to “Orange” or its org. In cluing news, there are some great misdirects in Mr. Rosen’s puzzle, including 57 Across (“Bath setting: Abbr.” for ENG) and 17 Across (“Diet, e.g.” for LEGISLATURE), but for me, the best one was “Alternative to shoots?” because the word “shoots” is sitting there all innocent, like it’s not a synonym for a mild curse. It could mean firing a weapon, it could be the kind of shoots that come up out of the soil in the spring. But it’s not. Today, DANGS is our alternative to “shoots.” Only one nit today: It is very clever wordplay to clue TROT as “Arab spring,” because Arabians are horses and they do, in fact, spring when they TROT. However, the clue seems a bit insensitive to me. Your mileage, and all that. Let’s catch up with Mr. Rosen: Anything can inspire a themed puzzle. My inspiration for an unthemed puzzle is usually an anchor word or two, and for this market fresh is better. I’ve enjoyed “The Colbert Report” since its debut, so COLBERT BUMP at 1 Across made a dandy debut entry. GEOCACHING at 27 Down is another debut entry. I’ve enjoyed the hunt several times. You can read about the activity on — what a shock — Wikipedia. MYCOLOGISTS in the SE corner is another debut item, and so are BACK BENCH, MAO SUIT, HEATHERY and BINGHAM. DARK STARS is new, although DARK STAR has been used before, clued using the racehorse or the sci-fi film. Likewise, the singular entry CONSULATE has appeared before. I supplied two clues for every entry; Will kept many of them, tweaked some more while retaining the sense of my offering, and — what a shock — rewrote many. “SE LA” was a 1987 hit by Lionel Richie, and the interesting thing about this song is that the true meaning of the word SE LA or “SE LA” or even “selah” is unclear. The root from which it was translated from Hebrew is no longer known, so it could mean “to pause and think”, “to praise” or “to lift up.” Doesn’t matter to me. I still like the song: Your thoughts? Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. David Kahn puts us through the wringer.Read more… Emily Cox and Henry Rathvon offer us a challenging cryptic crossword puzzle.Read more… A place for solvers to discuss and ask questions about the “A Little Variety” suite of puzzles.Read more… Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Food   Quinoa Salad for a Crowd. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Spring Recipes: Melissa Clark Quinoa Salad for a Crowd By Jenny Woodward | Apr. 11, 2014 | 3:11 Melissa Clark makes a quinoa salad with soft roasted carrots and crunchy fried leeks that can serve as a side course or a main dish. Related: article: Give Your Heart to Quinoa Show More PlaylistUp Next in Spring Recipes: Melissa Clark ← Previous Melissa Clark Food1:51 Green Garlic Tabbouleh Melissa Clark Food1:44 Salmon With Anchovy Butter   Spring Recipes: Melissa Clark2:38 Shaved Vegetable Salad   Spring Recipes: Melissa Clark2:28 Braised Brisket   Spring Recipes: Melissa Clark3:44 Grilled Skirt Steak With Herbs   Spring Recipes: Melissa Clark3:22 Asparagus Soup With Ricotta Crostini   Spring Recipes: Melissa Clark3:17 Pea Salad With Creamy Cheese   Spring Recipes: Melissa Clark2:39 Scallops With Sorrel Butter   Spring Recipes: Melissa Clark2:46 Steamed Clams With Spring Herbs   Spring Recipes: Melissa Clark3:26 Pasta With Garlicky Bread Crumbs   Now Playing Spring Recipes: Melissa Clark3:11 Quinoa Salad for a Crowd   Spring Recipes: Melissa Clark3:04 Chocolate Caramel Macarons © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Foreign   Image of the Day: April 11. Advertisement   India’s national elections began April 7 and will continue on nine separate dates until May 12, with results expected to be announced on May 16. The vote is the world’s largest, with 814 million eligible voters set to choose 543 members of the lower house of Parliament. The other two seats will be appointed by the president. This election is widely considered to be India’s most consequential since 1977. India Ink will be moving to the World page of The New York Times. Read more… A memorial ceremony at the Imphal War Cemetery in Manipur to honor the soldiers who died during World War II.Read more… The newly elected prime minister reaches out to the public in a blog post about his first 30 days in office.Read more… Newborns whose mothers are unable to breastfeed are given stored breast milk to protect them from potentially life-threatening infection.Read more… In the final stage of a long decline, Hindustan Motors announced in May that it would suspend production of the Ambassador, a car that was once synonymous with style and status.Read more… This report on India from the journalists of The New York Times and a pool of talented writers in India and beyond provides unbiased, authoritative reporting on the country and its place in the world. India Ink also strives to be a virtual meeting point for discussion of this complex, fast-changing democracy – its politics, economy, culture and everyday life. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Health   The Weekly Health Quiz. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content The New York Times Health|The Weekly Health Quiz Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go http://nyti.ms/1jwNHol Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Health The Weekly Health Quiz In the news: exercise enjoyment, Medicare dollars and pregnancy risks. Test your knowledge of this week’s health news. APRIL 10, 2014 Toby Bilanow/The New York Times Related Multimedia The Weekly Health Quiz APRIL 3, 2014 Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Movies   Movie Review: ‘Draft Day’. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Video Movie Review: ‘Draft Day’ By Robin Lindsay and Chelsie Taddonio | Apr. 11, 2014 | 1:03 The Times critic A. O. Scott reviews “Draft Day.” Related: article: Writing a Playbook That Ensures Glory Show More PlaylistUp Next in Video Next → Op-Docs: Season 5 9:23 I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked   Video1:08 Hitting all the Right Notes Op-Docs: Season 5 13:33 Manufacturing China’s Future Op-Docs: Season 5 6:05 Fashion vs. Art   Video0:56 Excerpt: ‘The Father’   Video0:33 Excerpt: ‘Exit Strategy’ Op-Docs: Season 5 7:19 A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race   Video1:58 Excerpt: ‘Antlia Pneumatica’   News Clips: Europe1:20 Officials React to Panama Papers   News Clips: Europe3:47 Mossack Fonseca on Data Leak © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Science   Wounded by the Language of War. Advertisement When did the language we use to talk about death start to resemble a Pentagon briefing, full of military references and combat analogies? Maybe it dates to 1971, when Richard Nixon declared a “war on cancer.” Or much earlier, in the late 1800s, when doctors began using the word “armamentarium” to describe all the techniques, materials and equipment available to treat disease. Certainly these metaphors have since become pervasive, among patients and physicians, the public and the news media. Family members seek aggressive treatment for an ailing relative, saying, “He’s a fighter,” or “She’s a survivor.” We talk about whether people with terminal diseases want “heroic measures” or not. And when people die, we portray them not as having succumbed to disease, but as having struggled to the very end before being vanquished by a superior foe. Recent death notices in The New York Times (which are placed by families, as opposed to the obituaries written by reporters) memorialized a woman in her 90s who died “after a valiant battle against Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s” and a 93-year-old man who died “after a long-fought battle with prostate cancer.” The bellicose wording “reflects some of the death-denying and death-defying feelings we find in our culture,” said Dr. Daniel Johnson, a palliative-care physician in Denver who directs the Kaiser Permanente Care Management Institute. “Society sees death as the enemy, so it’s not surprising we turn to language that references war.” But that can have unhappy real world consequences, Dr. Johnson recently cautioned in a talk at the Association of Health Care Journalists’ national conference. Patients have taken him aside to confess that they dread another round of chemotherapy but fear disappointing those who expect them to “fight.”  “They’re nervous about what their doctors and their families might think,” he told me in an interview. What they may actually want to say is that “I’ve lived a really good life, and now I want to spend time with my family” instead of at a dialysis center or in intensive care. To spend one’s final weeks or months free of that pressure can be “potentially transformative and beautiful,” Dr. Johnson said. Often, though, to “give up” has become shameful. Consider the couple whom Patrice Villars, a gerontological and palliative-care nurse-practitioner, is working with at the VA Medical Center in San Francisco. He’s nearly 90, has metastatic lung cancer, can no longer leave his hospital bed, and has lost his appetite — a normal, expected development at the end of life. But his wife urges him to eat and to “just try harder.” His life expectancy is measurable in days or weeks, Ms. Villars said, regardless of what he eats. Ms. Villars, who complained about the “losing the battle” meme on the GeriPal blog a few years ago, has come to see this language as stemming from the grief of those about to be left behind. “It’s intolerable to think of losing someone they care so deeply about,” she told me. “I think it’s true for health care providers, too. We feel helpless and sad, and we don’t know where to put that.” But, she added, war words make us judgmental. “I worry about the implication that somehow, someone was deficient or a loser or didn’t do something right if they died,” she told me. “People die.” The idea that sick and old people must wage war is on my mind lately, as well. For some people in some situations, all-out combat against a reversible condition makes sense. In late January, when a beloved cousin of mine, Rae LeRoy, had trouble breathing and went to the hospital, it seemed logical to treat what initially looked like pneumonia. She was a vibrant 93-year-old still living in her house, driving to club meetings, doing water aerobics; perhaps she could regain her strength and continue her active life a while longer. But one hospitalization followed another, a too-familiar cycle of 911 calls, release to a rehabilitation center and re-admission. She had developed heart failure, not a curable condition. Each hospital stay left her further weakened. Was it time to shift to comfort care, to call a hospice? Her longtime doctor not only discouraged the idea when Rae’s daughter asked that entirely reasonable question, but scoffed at it: “We’re not anywhere near that.” She wanted Rae to continue The Fight. But why? Rae had fulfilled every obligation, lived life fully, and now she was weeping with fatigue, saying, “I can’t do it anymore, I’m so tired.” Is “fighting,” which presumably means using everything in the armamentarium, the only way to show courage at the end of life? A palliative-care physician finally sat down with Rae and her children in late March, explained her options and told her, “You decided how you wanted to live, and now you get to decide how you want to die.” Rae chose to stop going to the hospital, enter hospice care, say goodbye to friends and family — a valiant decision in my book, and her children’s — and let death come as it would. It came in days. She didn’t want to die, bloodied and exhausted, on a battlefield. She wanted peace. Others will make different decisions (and I’d like to hear about your families’ experiences), but they might feel freer to make them if they were released from the language of war and the expectations that accompany it. If immortality has become the only victory, we’re all failures. Paula Span is the author of “When the Time Comes: Families With Aging Parents Share Their Struggles and Solutions.” The blog is ending, but our coverage of caregiving and aging is not. The New Old Age will run as a twice-monthly column by Paula Span on nytimes.com and frequently in Science Times. Read more… At many nursing homes and assisted living places, a resident’s passing may be hardly noted.Read more… Circumstances had changed, and all these documents needed to change, too. Read more… Lifestyle modification prevents Type 2 diabetes even more effectively in the elderly than in middle-aged patients.Read more… Julianne Moore gives a wonderful performance in “Still Alice,” but the film skirts the truth about dementia.Read more… Thanks to the marvels of medical science, our parents are living longer than ever before. Most will spend years dependent on others for the most basic needs. That burden falls to their baby boomer children. The New Old Age blog explored this unprecedented intergenerational challenge. Paula Span will continue to write New Old Age columns twice monthly at nytimes.com/health and the conversation will continue on Twitter (@paula_span) and Facebook. A few medical institutions have opened their doors to patients’ own dogs and cats. Scheduling and medication errors plague patients with Parkinson's. Dementia doesn't respect public stature. Is there life after caregiving, and if so what it is like? Comprehensive reference and special reports about diseases, conditions, tests, injuries and surgeries. Useful information, tools, and links to organizations around the Web. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   Atlético Outlines Its Championship Intentions. Advertisement Advertisement By ROB HUGHESAPRIL 10, 2014 LONDON — The brew is fomenting nicely, intriguingly, evenly. The four teams going into Friday’s semifinal draw of the Champions League cut right across the divide of wealth and playing style. There are two blue-collar teams in the pot, Atlético Madrid and Chelsea. And there are two attacking but vulnerable sides, Bayern Munich and Real Madrid. Left completely to chance, this pot holds fascinating portents. The two Madrid teams pitted against one another? The last two champions, Chelsea and Bayern, repeating their 2012 final in Munich? Or the prospect of Chelsea’s trying to shoot down Thibaut Courtois, the 6-foot-6 giant goalkeeper it owns but has loaned out to Atlético since 2011? Layer upon layer of human intrigue. If there is one outsider to what is becoming a fixed European elite in the final stages of the Champions League, it surely is Atlético. Yet we shouldn’t be surprised. This team from “the other side” of Madrid has a history of rearing itself up against the aristocrats across the city and at rare times in its history banging on the door and demanding to be let in on the prizes. It is 40 years since the red and white side of Madrid has reached the last four of European competition. But the way that Atlético snuffed out Barcelona on Wednesday, and has proved itself the better team than Real when they met in La Liga this season, can in no way be considered fortunate. Advertisement “Win, win, and win again!” read a huge mosaic in the stands when Atleti and Barça emerged at Vicente Calderón stadium on Wednesday night. It was a statement of intent. It was a saying favored for many years by Luis Aragonés, the foremost goal scorer and coach in Atlético’s history. Aragonés died in February, but his people, the 50,000 Atleti followers, invoked his memory, his work ethic, with that message. Of course, an atmosphere should not have blown away Barcelona. These Barça players have been everywhere, done everything in the sport, and set the standards for world soccer over the past decade. You would never expect Lionel Messi, Xavi Hernández, Andrés Iniesta to cower in any setting, much less one in which their Champions League season depended upon it. Yet they were second best this time. They were ghosts in the cauldron, pun intended, that is Atleti’s domain. No matter how hard they, and their new Brazilian, Neymar, tried, the home side tried harder. This is no accident. Aragonés imbued Atlético, and the Spanish national squad, too, with a work ethic that squeezed the virtue out of opponents, broke their will and broke down any areas of supremacy that might have been presumed. It is no coincidence that Diego Simeone, the current coach of Atlético, first arrived at the Calderón as a player under Aragonés in 1994. They soon parted, because that was Aragonés’s way: He came, he fired up the atmosphere, he burned out, and he came again and again to his spiritual home in Madrid. Simeone, an Argentine, has two things in common with the old coach. He is a winner and a ferocious worker. Simeone played in the midfield of the last Atleti team to win La Liga, and he is back now cajoling, demanding, calling for more effort, and more, more, more. You cannot miss him on the sideline. He dresses, always, in black from collar to shoes. A silver crucifix dangles from his trim waistcoat, or rather it dances as he leaps up on the sideline. He plays the crowd as well as the players, urging them to shout louder and longer than any opposing team wants to hear. And they respond. The people, Simeone recently said, are magnificent. They cannot score a goal, but they can give the team energy. Advertisement Atlético came out like a human whirlwind on Wednesday. The home players pinned Barça back on its heels. Koke, born and raised to be an Atleti player, struck a goal in the fifth minute that was a dagger in the heart of the Catalans’ avowed intent to strike first against the home side. But that Koke goal, a stab with the inside of his foot from close range, was to be the winner thoroughly deserved. Four times, Atlético and Barcelona had previously met this season. Four times the game, home and away, had finished all square. Wednesday had to be decisive, and Atleti — players, coach and crowd — wanted it more. That solitary goal came amid an opening salvo that lasted 20 minutes, during which Adrián López struck the frame of the goal once, and David Villa, a former Barça player, hit the woodwork twice. And when Barcelona did break out, when the famous feet of one of the best teams the world has seen searched for their rhythm and passing control, at least two home players closed down the space, harassed and dogged them. It was driven, intense, and the epitome of organized obstinacy. Obviously, Simeone trains his players for this, but where they find the energy and the remorseless willpower is — the coach says — inside the players themselves. If you doubt their ability to keep running this dream for eight more games, you cannot have watched its season. “This team has no ceiling,” Koke wrote on the club’s Twitter feed late Wednesday. “We’re going to keep our focus dreaming. We are going to maintain our match-by-match philosophy.” The players have no choice. If they flag, Simeone will drop them. Whoever they are, they are replaceable. Wednesday’s victory came without Diego Costa, the team’s top scorer, and without Arda Turan, the crafty Turkish creator. They were injured, and up stepped reserves. In a club fighting debt, and often forced to sell exciting talents, Atleti’s answer is work and more work, until the opponents wilt. “The atmosphere in the stands was decisive,” Simeone said one more time on Wednesday. “It may not have influenced Barcelona’s players, but it certainly influenced ours.” No opponent will want to be paired with Atleti on Friday. A version of this article appears in print on April 11, 2014, in The International New York Times. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Travel   A Caribbean Resort Goes Solar. Advertisement Blessed by year-round tropical sunshine, the Caribbean seems like a natural candidate for solar power. To date, primarily only small properties have adopted it,  while larger hotels have used it on a more limited basis. But with its installation of 2,602 solar panels with a 755-kilowatt capacity, the 317-room Westin Dawn Beach Resort & Spa on St. Maarten claims this crown: the largest solar resort in the Caribbean region. The hotel began dabbling with solar power in 2007 when it used panels to heat its swimming pool. With the expansion of the project, it expects to channel six to eight hours of solar energy daily throughout the resort. Company executives cited the abundance of sunshine on the Dutch Caribbean island and calculated a return on investment of four to five years, while saving 1.9 million pounds of carbon dioxide emissions annually. The panels, meanwhile, won’t wreck the resort’s ocean views; the devices are located on the roof. In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
U.S.   California School Officials on Bus Crash. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Video California School Officials on Bus Crash Apr. 11, 2014 | 1:03 Earl Perkins and Tom Waldman of the Los Angeles Unified School District discussed the steps the district will take following the bus crash. Related: article: In an Instant, a Bus to College Was a Fiery Trap Show More PlaylistUp Next in Video Next → Op-Docs: Season 5 9:23 I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked   Video1:08 Hitting all the Right Notes Op-Docs: Season 5 13:33 Manufacturing China’s Future Op-Docs: Season 5 6:05 Fashion vs. Art   Video0:56 Excerpt: ‘The Father’   Video0:33 Excerpt: ‘Exit Strategy’ Op-Docs: Season 5 7:19 A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race   Video1:58 Excerpt: ‘Antlia Pneumatica’   News Clips: Europe1:20 Officials React to Panama Papers   News Clips: Europe3:47 Mossack Fonseca on Data Leak © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Business   It’s Taxing. Advertisement By Dan Schoenholz Apr 13, 2014 The New York Times Crossword is available through subscription only. SUNDAY’S PUZZLE — As if we needed a reminder, today’s puzzle by Dan Schoenholz provides us with a timely countdown to the April 15 deadline for filing our taxes. Fortunately it’s a funny reminder, which may help make the medicine go down a bit easier for some of us. First things first: Hands up if you read the clue for 5 Down and your brain automatically filled in “BROWN COW” even as you realized that Hamlet never said any such thing. Me too. When I run into things like that, I envision Will Shortz sitting in his office and laughing his head off. Anyway, back to the theme. Mr. Schoenholz has taken seven phrases and clued them punnily to make them relate to filing our taxes. WITHHOLDING CONSENT is “Agreement for an amount to be taken from one’s salary?” and MANY HAPPY RETURNS is “What C.P.A.s wish for their clients?” and so on. I liked all of them, although I’m sure we all wrapped our hopes around BRILLIANT DEDUCTION. In nontheme news, I like ART GLASS (mainly because I’m in love with Lalique), HELLIONS, SAFE AREA and ON HIGH. ILLY is, to my mind, more of a coffee brand than a word meant to mean “In a bad way,” but O.K. Clue of the Day for me was “Hangovers at home?” for EAVES. It turns out that Mr. Schoenholz’s theme is dedicated to someone special, in a way, but I’ll let him tell you about it: One of the things I enjoy about constructing is finding ways to weave my personal interests into my puzzles. One was named after the German city where I lived for a time (“A Whiff of Cologne”); another included my favorite musical artist, John Hiatt, as an entry for the first time ever in The New York Times. Today’s puzzle is in the same vein: it’s a 21 x 21 tribute to my brother, Mike, a C.P.A. who disappears around Feb. 15 every year, only to re-emerge in mid-April after having helped his many clients pick their way through the complicated puzzle that is our tax code. Congrats, Mike, on making it through another tax season! And congratulations to the rest of us for doing the same! Just in case you thought that accountants don’t know how to have a good time, here’s the “Accountancy Shanty” from Rutland Weekend Television: Your thoughts? Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. David Kahn puts us through the wringer.Read more… Emily Cox and Henry Rathvon offer us a challenging cryptic crossword puzzle.Read more… A place for solvers to discuss and ask questions about the “A Little Variety” suite of puzzles.Read more… Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   1939: Goldfish Aren’t Safe in Bowls As College Boys Gulp ‘Em Alive. Advertisement NEW YORK — The silly season has arrived with the advent of a craze far outdoing flagpole-sitting, marathon dancing, chain letter-writing and non-stop beer guzzling for dizziness. The college boys of the country, or some of them at least, are trying to outdo each other in the number of live goldfish they can swallow!  Irving M. Clark, of Seattle, a sophomore at Harvard, started the rage for live fish gulping. He succeeded Lothrop Withington jr., another Harvard youth, who tossed off a goldfish alive on a bet. Clark is said to have gobbled twenty-four of the little fellows, completely agonizing Robert F. Sellar, president of the Boston Animal Rescue League. A Boston College junior took the title from Clark, using milk as a chaser to twenty-nine live ones. Sellar went into action immediately. “This business has gone quite far enough,” said Mr. Sellar. “I’m going to communicate with various collegiate officials, and if they cannot impress it upon the students to stop, we’ll take drastic action. I hesitate to bring such a matter to the court, but we won’t sidestep the issue. There have been too many complaints.” Now the thing has spread, like a chain letter, to Philadelphia. Jack Murray, a sixteen-year-old high school student, swallowed two live ones without salt. He used a coconut cream Easter egg as a chaser. But he took no chances. He performed in front of a drug store. “A small goldfish wouldn’t be any harder to digest than an oyster,” said a medical authority here today. “The bones are infinitesimal and, aside from the flipflaps stomach-ward, the goldfish is easily digested. Or any other small fish.” — New York Herald Tribune, European edition, April 10, 1939.  This blog will share highlights and curiosities from The International Herald Tribune's storied reportage. While we will share coverage of historic events — the world wars, the women's suffrage movement, the great expeditions — we will also republish glimpses of less earth-shaking moments and the ephemera of daily life. The same stories that caught the eyes of our generations of editors now offer us insight into the lives and interests of generations of Trib readers. Read more » From the International Herald Tribune archives: The Vichy government limits menus in 1941.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: A Nigerian officer at war sends a dispatch in 1916. Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: Germany establishes a naval repair shop 500 miles from South America in 1941.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: Prince Victor Napoleon gives a treatise on French politics in 1891.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: British troops attack Irak forces in 1941.Read more… Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   New European Cup Format Ends Long-Running Rugby Dispute. Advertisement Advertisement By EMMA STONEYAPRIL 11, 2014 After almost two years of acrimony and in-fighting, the powerhouses of European rugby have finally reached agreement on a new competition to replace the Heineken Cup. Beginning next season, the current format will be replaced with a 20-team competition — the European Rugby Champions Cup — which will include a new second-tier tournament, the European Rugby Challenge Cup, to replace the Amlin Challenge Cup. A third-tier competition, the Qualifying Competition, aimed at providing greater opportunities to clubs from emerging rugby nations like Georgia, Portugal, Romania and Spain, will also be introduced. The new competitions will be run by European Professional Club Rugby, a new organization based in Switzerland that replaces the European Rugby Cup Ltd. The E.P.C.R. will comprise a board of directors and an executive committee. The board will have representatives from all nine stakeholders — the unions of England, France, Ireland, Italy, Scotland and Wales, and the English Premiership, French Top 14 and Regional Rugby Wales — and an independent chairman. Advertisement The executive committee will be made up of the independent chairman, a director-general and one voting representative from each of the Premiership, Top 14 and Pro12. The executive will take charge of the day-to-day operations and commercial matters. The latter had been one of the key demands of the English and French clubs throughout the dispute. The European Rugby Champions Cup will involve the top six clubs from each of the English Premiership and the French Top 14, plus seven teams from the Pro12 league. Those seven will include the top teams from Ireland, Italy, Scotland and Wales, with the remaining three teams based on final league positions. The 20th place will be decided by a playoff between the seventh-ranked English and French clubs this year. In future years, that playoff will involve two Pro12 teams. The tournament winners will no longer be guaranteed a place in the following season’s competition. Five pools of four teams will play each other home and away. The winners of each pool plus the three best runners-up will progress to the quarterfinals. The European Rugby Challenge Cup will feature 18 teams from the same three leagues plus two from the newly created third-tier competition, the Qualifying Competition. That tournament will be made up of between eight and 12 teams from Italy and second-tier nations. The new agreement runs for a minimum of eight years. Revenue will be split equally among the English Premiership, French Top 14 and Pro12, although the Pro12 teams will be guaranteed a minimum amount for the first five years. Advertisement Under the current rules, the Pro12 gets a 52 percent share of the revenue, while the English and French get 24 percent each. An agreement in principle has also been reached between rival broadcasters BT Sport and Sky Sports, who have agreed to share the British broadcasting rights for the European Rugby Champions Cup and European Rugby Challenge Cup. That is a significant achievement as the issue had been at the heart of the conflict. In 2012, Premiership Rugby signed a four-year deal with BT Sport for 152 million pounds, or about $252 million, that included rights to show all its Premiership matches from 2013, plus European games involving English clubs for three years beginning in 2014. The European portion of that deal was worth nearly $100 million. That deal conflicted with the E.R.C.’s $117 million, four-year contract extension with Sky Sports for British broadcast rights for the Heineken Cup and second-tier Amlin Challenge Cup, starting next season. The new four-year broadcast deal calls for the pool matches from the new top two competitions to be shared equally by the broadcasters. They will show two quarterfinals each, a semifinal each, and the final will be broadcast live by both. BT Sport will have the first pick of European Rugby Champions Cup matches involving English clubs, and Sky Sports will have first pick on matches involving the French, Irish, Scottish and Welsh sides. It will be the reverse for the European Rugby Challenge Cup. The new agreement and structure is in essence a victory for the English and French clubs, which had demanded a reduction in teams in the Heineken Cup, a fairer qualification process, equal distribution of revenue and control of commercial affairs. In a statement, Mark McCafferty, the chief executive of Premiership Rugby, the umbrella organization of the 12 English Premiership teams, said: “This is an historic day for European club rugby.” Advertisement “The parties have worked hard to get to this point and the uncertainty is now over. These new club competitions will create top quality sporting drama for our supporters and commercial partners across Europe,” he continued. “ We are now entering a new phase of growth in the club game and alongside the three professional leagues, we’re confident that the new competitions will go from strength to strength, as well as incorporate new markets over time.” The future of European club rugby has been in doubt since 2012 when the English and French clubs announced their withdrawal from the Heineken Cup at the end of the 2013-14 season. After more than 12 months of unsuccessful negotiations with the French, Irish, Italian, Scottish and Welsh unions about a way forward, they announced a breakaway competition last September. Three months later — after the French clubs had reversed their stand and joined their federation in backing the E.R.C. — the Welsh Regions joined forces with the English clubs and said they would not play in next season’s Heineken Cup. Since then, Ian Ritchie, England’s Rugby Football Union chief executive, has worked tirelessly to broker a deal with all the stakeholders. He has also been instrumental in getting an agreement involving broadcasters, BT Sport and Sky Sports. “This is an excellent outcome for all concerned, most importantly the players and supporters who have made European rugby what it is today,” Ritchie said in a statement. “The equitable, long-term agreement will provide the platform for Rugby Union to continue to expand across Europe, increasing interest and involvement in the game at all levels.” A version of this article appears in print on April 12, 2014, in The International New York Times. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Travel   A Whole New Meaning for Food to Go. Advertisement Top chefs have been known to open satellite restaurants worldwide. Now a few of the world’s most respected chefs are moving abroad for limited culinary residencies. “A long-lasting dream of mine has come to fruition: Restaurant Noma is moving to Japan for two months in the beginning of 2015,” announced René Redzepi, chef and owner of Noma in Copenhagen, in an email and on his website, promising more details in June. A few days later, the British chef Heston Blumenthal said that he intended to close the Fat Duck in Bray, England, and move the operation, including most of its staff, to Crown Resorts in Melbourne, Australia, for six months beginning in February 2015. The hiatus will allow for a much-needed renovation and expansion of the Bray kitchen. “They don’t have a historic food culture as, say, Italy, Spain or France do, so the Australian public are incredibly open-minded and excited to try new things,” said Mr. Blumenthal, who turned down Las Vegas and Courchevel, France, for Melbourne. When the Fat Duck returns to England, the chef will open a copy of his London restaurant Dinner by Heston Blumenthal, highlighting historic British recipes, in the Australian space. And in Bermuda, the chef Marcus Samuelsson, who is based in New York, will open Samuelsson at HP from June 3 to Aug. 3 at the Fairmont Hamilton Princess hotel. The pop-up will serve island-inspired dishes and the chef expects to follow up in May 2015 with a full-fledged, and as-yet unnamed, new restaurant. A version of this article appears in print on 04/13/2014, on page TR3 of the NewYork edition with the headline: A Whole New Meaning for Food to Go. In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
U.S.   The Ruling on Gen. José Guillermo García. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content The New York Times U.S.|The Ruling on Gen. José Guillermo García Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go http://nyti.ms/1jzjMfe Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement U.S. The Ruling on Gen. José Guillermo García The decision by a Miami judge said that the former Salvadoran defense minister should be deported because of his involvement in a number of human rights violations. (Related Article) APRIL 11, 2014 Related Article 2014 11901 Redacted Applied (PDF) 2014 11901 Redacted Applied (Text) Related Multimedia Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Arts   How to Save $68,469 in Taxes. Advertisement Advertisement In some cases, collectors can avoid paying taxes on art they buy if they display it out of state before bringing it home. Here is how one collector navigated the system. APRIL 12, 2014 The collector lives in Pasadena, Calif. In November 2011 the collector bought an Andy Warhol “Dollar Sign” at a Christie’s auction in New York City. Since the piece was immediately shipped out of state, it was exempt from New York sales tax. Instead it would typically be taxed in the state in which it is “used.” CALIFORNIA “USE TAX” 8.75% Rather than send the piece directly home, in late December 2011 the collector lent it to the Jordan Schnitzer Museum of Art, in Eugene, Ore., where there is no “use tax.”   OREGON “USE TAX” 0% In April 2012, after more than 90 days on display, the piece has been “used” outside of California, making it exempt from that state’s “use tax.” It arrived in Pasadena tax-free. The collector lives in Pasadena, Calif. In November 2011 the collector bought an Andy Warhol “Dollar Sign” at a Christie’s auction in New York City. Since the piece was immediately shipped out of state, it was exempt from New York sales tax. Instead it would typically be taxed in the state in which it is “used.” OREGON “USE TAX” 0% CALIFORNIA “USE TAX” 8.75% Rather than send the piece directly home, in late December 2011 the collector lent it to the Jordan Schnitzer Museum of Art, in Eugene, Ore., where there is no “use tax.”   In April 2012, after more than 90 days on display, the piece has been “used” outside of California, making it exempt from that state’s “use tax.” It arrived in Pasadena tax-free. 2014 The Andy Warhol Foundation for the Visual Arts Inc. / Artists Rights Society (ARS), New York
Business   Rich Start-Ups Go Back for Another Helping. Advertisement Quora, a question-and-answer website, didn’t need to raise money. It had barely touched $60 million in venture capital that it accepted just two years ago. Yet the California company, which has no revenue and just 70 employees, recently announced that it had raised an additional $80 million. The eye-popping investment — for no obvious immediate purpose — was the latest example of a dynamic that is reshaping Silicon Valley: Start-ups, already flush with cash, are piling on the investment dollars. Of the 100 largest venture capital rounds on record, 88 were issued within the past five years, according to CrunchBase, which tracks venture funding. Each delivered more than $50 million to the companies. “The more capital you have in the bank, the more comfortable and confident you can be,” said Marc Bodnick, a former venture capitalist who now runs Quora’s business operations. “It was really that simple.” Several factors are driving the proliferation of big late-stage investments. Technology start-ups are staying private longer, venture capital firms are looking to put idle funds to work, and institutional investors are chasing returns in fast-growing private companies. For technology companies eager to achieve the highest possible valuation on the road to a sale or an initial public offering, this means it is easier than ever to raise megarounds. Truly, it seems, there can never be too much money in the bank. At the same time, the flood of money is inflating the valuations of early-stage companies and stoking fears of another dot-com bubble. “There’s a Silicon Valley expression: Eat when the food is passed,” said Nirav Tolia, chief executive of Nextdoor, which last year accepted $60 million in additional venture funding despite having plenty of money in the bank. Mr. Tolia said that while Nextdoor had no pressing need for the cash, taking the investment gave his company added security and decreased the likelihood that it would simply go up in smoke. “It’s always good to extend your runway,” he said. “It’s always good to bet on the furthest-out point.” Late-stage rounds have grown enormously over the past few years. The average size of such investments so far this year was $44.1 million, the highest level in the past five years and up 77 percent from last year, according to data from CB Insights. This month, Airbnb, the home-sharing site, neared a deal to raise as much as a staggering $500 million from investors like TPG Growth, T. Rowe Price and Dragoneer Investment Group, according to people briefed on the matter. TPG Growth alone had been prepared to provide up to $150 million in the round, one of these people said. And two weeks ago, Lyft raised $250 million from the likes of the Alibaba Group of China and Daniel S. Loeb’s investment firm, Third Point — despite being widely regarded as significantly behind the leader in the car service industry, Uber. Some venture capitalists warn that the current rush of big late-stage funding could reduce entrepreneurs’ discipline. A number of investors have pointed to the troubles of Fab.com, an e-commerce start-up that raised $150 million last summer at the tender age of two years. Facing widespread criticism that the round was too much money too soon, Fab’s chief executive, Jason Goldberg, defended the move as a way to open up new business opportunities. Yet an overambitious expansion plan and falling sales led to a wave of employee exits and a painful retrenchment. “We had started to dream in billions when we should have been focused on making one day simply better than the one before it,” Mr. Goldberg wrote in a blog post in January. And Alfred Lin, a partner at Sequoia Capital, conceded that investors were spending less and less time conducting due diligence. “The speed at which term sheets are being issued is faster,” he said. “We’re playing by slightly different rules than what happened even five years ago.” One thing that has changed in recent years is the sheer amount of capital available for investment in Silicon Valley start-ups. Many big venture capital firms have recently raised big rounds, meaning the traditional backers of tech firms are well positioned to write big checks. But venture capitalists are increasingly being joined by hedge funds and private equity firms chasing huge returns. Among the top investors in fund-raising rounds that collected over $100 million are Digital Sky Technologies and Tiger Global Management, which ranked alongside traditional venture capital firms like Andreessen Horowitz and Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, according to CB Insights. Also joining the fray are mutual funds like T. Rowe Price and Fidelity Investments. In many cases, such firms are given access to promising start-ups with the understanding that they would remain investors even after an I.P.O. And some hedge funds are even transforming themselves into so-called growth capital firms that invest in older start-ups. Coatue Management, for example, is planning on raising a $500 million fund devoted to the kinds of investments that the firm has made in companies like Snapchat and the last-minute hotel booking site Hotel Tonight. “This was impossible 10 years ago,” said Norm Fogelsong, a partner with Institutional Venture Partners, which has made big investments in companies including Dropbox and Snapchat. “There just wasn’t as much money in the venture business. It’s happening because it can.” Instead of raising just enough money for the next 18 months or two years, companies are now raising all the money they could feasibly need as a private company in one fell swoop. “In a prior generation, companies would raise just as much money as they needed as they approached the next milestone,” Mr. Fogelsong said. “Today, companies can raise money well ahead of any actual need.” For the companies receiving the influxes of capital, having so much money in the bank allows them to control their own destiny, rather than be at the mercy of acquirers or the markets. “If someone wants to buy them, they can turn it down and wait for a higher price,” said Peter C. Wendell, managing director of Sierra Ventures. “If the I.P.O. is looking shaky, they can say, ‘Look at my balance sheet,’ and wait.” Box, the cloud storage company, has filed to go public at a time when, filings show, it needs to raise more capital. But its rival, Dropbox, recently raised $250 million and may put off its I.P.O., especially as appetite for technology stocks is faltering. In 2008, HomeAway, the real estate website, was planning to go public. But as the financial crisis began, HomeAway executives decided to postpone the I.P.O. Instead, in November of that year, HomeAway raised $250 million in additional venture capital and resolved not to think about going public for at least two years. “It allowed us to reset the clock,” said Lynn Atchison, HomeAway’s chief financial officer. The company finally went public in 2011. HomeAway is not alone. The average age of companies going public today is 10 years, in contrast to the average of just six years in 2000, according to Jay R. Ritter, a professor at the University of Florida. “Rounds that would have otherwise gotten done in the public markets are getting done in the private markets,” said Scott Kupor, partner and chief operating officer of Andreessen Horowitz, a venture capital firm that is among the most active participants in big late-stage rounds. These longer incubation periods mean many companies do need more capital for operating expenses. For example, companies that focus on on-demand services, like the car ride companies Uber and Lyft, require capital as they build out their dispatch networks in new cities and offer new products. And on average, between a quarter and just under a third of the late-stage money is being used to buy shares from employees and early investors ahead of an I.P.O. Mostly, however, companies are collecting the additional money simply because they can, taking advantage of an ocean of ready cash. “We are not trying to generate return on that raised capital,” said Mr. Tolia of Nextdoor. Instead, he said, his company’s latest venture funds would be invested in money market accounts and left all but untouched. For venture capitalists, allowing portfolio companies to take on more funding means their existing stakes can be diluted. But since these big rounds often lead to much higher valuations, many investors don’t mind. In the case of Quora, the new round valued the company at a reported $900 million, more than double the previous valuation of $400 million. That means that while some early investors may have seen their ownership diluted by the new round, the value of their holdings nonetheless soared. “When it goes off at a high price, the V.C. gets to change the price of the other stock on his books,” said Mr. Wendell of Sierra Ventures. The result is that much of a company’s gain in value is happening before it even goes public. “Appreciation that normally would have happened in the public market is happening in the private market,” said Mr. Kupor of Andreessen Horowitz. “This is why we see T. Rowe, Fidelity and JPMorgan investing. They’re saying, ‘There’s not a lot of growth for us in the public market.’ ” And while this has made for a frenzied investment environment in Silicon Valley, it is also raising new questions about who benefits from the booming success of the technology industry. “There’s a broader public policy question here,” Mr. Kupor said. “There is a wealth transfer happening, from public investors to private investors. And the benefits are accruing to the investors that can access the private markets.” A version of this article appears in print on 04/14/2014, on page B1 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Rich Start-Ups Get Richer . Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   In Our Pages: April 14. Advertisement 1914: England Crushes France in Annual Rugby Match Every year the interest manifested by the French public in football grows keener. For the ninth annual Rugby match between England and France, which took place yesterday afternoon [Apr. 13], the Colombes Stade, near Paris, was almost too small for the number of spectators. At least 35,000 persons are estimated to have been present. The match was a disappointment to Frenchmen as the English team showed its crushing superiority by beating the Frenchmen by 30 points to 13. In the first half the French team played against the sun and the men had the disadvantage of the light in their eyes. Nevertheless, the home team gave its best showing in this period and scored 8 points. But the superior skill and tactics of the English three-quarters were manifest from the outset. The match opened with some pretty passing between the English halves and forwards. A dangerous run by Lowe was stopped in time, and Johnston immediately afterwards found touch. The Frenchmen began to show remarkable dash, and their work in the scrimmages was at this stage of the match splendid. 1964: Khrushchev Reported Dead, but He’s Alive at Party MOSCOW — While reports of the “death” of Nikita S. Khrushchev flashed around the world tonight, the Soviet Premier stood very much alive in the Kremlin toasting Polish Communist leader Wladyslaw Gomulka. Mr. Khrushchev, who will be 70 on Friday, was oblivious to the false report distributed from Bonn by the West German news agency Deutsche Presse Agentur. The rest of the world, however, learned of the report immediately as it was flashed around the globe by news agencies and radios. Almost as quickly the report was denied by Soviet officials who said it was “complete rubbish” and charged the West German agency with “deliberate provocation.” The agency report went so far as to give the time of the death — 19:19 GMT and the cause — acute cirrhosis. The source of its information, DPA said, was the official news agency Tass. But Dmitri P. Goryunov, chief of Tass, said that the Soviet agency had never published such a report and had no intention of publishing a denial because it is “just a silly, ill-intentioned rumor.”  This blog will share highlights and curiosities from The International Herald Tribune's storied reportage. While we will share coverage of historic events — the world wars, the women's suffrage movement, the great expeditions — we will also republish glimpses of less earth-shaking moments and the ephemera of daily life. The same stories that caught the eyes of our generations of editors now offer us insight into the lives and interests of generations of Trib readers. Read more » From the International Herald Tribune archives: The Vichy government limits menus in 1941.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: A Nigerian officer at war sends a dispatch in 1916. Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: Germany establishes a naval repair shop 500 miles from South America in 1941.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: Prince Victor Napoleon gives a treatise on French politics in 1891.Read more… From the International Herald Tribune archives: British troops attack Irak forces in 1941.Read more… Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Society   The Complete Package. Advertisement Advertisement By ROSALIE R. RADOMSKYAPRIL 13, 2014 Susan Levin lost her life’s work of art and all her possessions when her house burned down in a wildfire. She ordered new things online — and fell in love with the FedEx delivery woman. Margie Ellen Ashley and Susan Barbara Levin are to be married Sunday at the Marin Art and Garden Center in Ross, Calif. Marsha R. Angus, a Universal Life minister, will officiate. Until 2012, Ms. Ashley (left), 52, worked as a courier in Montecito, Calif., for FedEx. She is a daughter of Mary E. Ashley of Stafford, Va. Ms. Levin, 63, a visual artist and jewelry maker, has a studio in San Anselmo, Calif. She graduated from Antioch University Los Angeles and received a master’s degree in creative writing from Bennington College. Her two previous marriages ended in divorce. She is the daughter of the late Jean Albert, who lived in Santa Barbara, Calif., and the late Martin Levin, who lived in South Orange, N.J. Advertisement The couple met in January 2009 not long after a wildfire in the foothills of Montecito burned down 200 houses, including Ms. Levin’s. Ms. Levin, whose daughter Lily, 17, lived with her, and whose son Abe, 25, was living in Berkeley, soon found another house five miles away. “I had lost everything,” she said. “I had to buy everything from spoons to a couch. I ordered everything online. Packages were coming every day. I was distraught. I was a wreck. I would sit at the kitchen table in tears.” Ms. Ashley had been alerted that a resident of one of the houses lost in the blaze had moved to her route. When she made her first delivery to Ms. Levin’s new address, Ms. Ashley told her how sorry she was about what had happened to her house and held Ms. Levin’s hand in silence in the garden. Ms. Ashley also got an uncharacteristic welcome from Ms. Levin’s two dogs. “Typically they would bark and bark and bark,“ Ms. Levin said. “The first day they ran up to her wagging their tails.” Ms. Levin quickly began to look forward to seeing Ms. Ashley, whom she thought might be gay. Ms. Levin admitted that soon she began ordering things just so she could see her. When making deliveries, Ms. Ashley would often use her 10-minute break or lunch time talking with Ms. Levin about things they had in common, like Buddhism (after Ms. Ashley noticed all the Buddhist sculptures in the yard). “We would just talk about art,” said Ms. Ashley, who did not yet know that Ms. Levin is gay, and they bonded even more once they discovered they were both from New Jersey. In June, Ms. Levin suggested that Ms. Ashley come over after her shift and take a walk with her to the nearby Vedanta Temple. They meditated in its garden, and were in such high spirits on the way home that a man walking by noticed how giddy they were and said, “I want some of what you two have.” In July Ms. Levin surprised Ms. Ashley with tickets to an Indigo Girls concert in Santa Barbara. As they walked there, Ms. Levin said to Ms. Ashley, “I would like you to hold my hand,” which she did for the entire show. The next year Ms. Ashley and her tabby cat moved in with Ms. Levin, her daughter and the dogs. Before her house in the foothills burned down, Ms. Levin recalled how her mother would say: “You never leave the house. You’ll never meet anybody. What, are you going to marry the U.P.S. guy?” To which Ms. Levin said, “I married the FedEx girl.” ROSALIE R. RADOMSKY A version of this article appears in print on April 13, 2014, on page ST17 of the New York edition with the headline: The Complete Package. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Sports   Mets Absorb a Staggering Blow but Deliver the Final One. Advertisement Advertisement By TIM ROHANAPRIL 13, 2014 ANAHEIM, Calif. — Jose Valverde was crouched over, his hands on his knees, as he watched Raul Ibanez’s three-run homer sail into the night. The shot, which tied the score at 6-6 in the bottom of the ninth, spoiled a solid start by Jon Niese and forced the weary Mets to play on. They had flown here from Atlanta two nights before, had battled the Los Angeles Angels for 11 innings and lost the previous night, and now this. Somehow, they recovered. Anthony Recker hit a solo home run in the 13th, and the Mets won, 7-6. Instead of lasting about three hours, the game stretched to 4 hours 29 minutes. “It’s over already,” Valverde said, adding: “Who’s the winner? The Mets.” Niese had thrown seven and a third innings. He had outpitched Jered Weaver, allowing only three runs. He had saved the Mets’ bullpen, which had worked 12 2/3 innings over the last three games. After Ibanez’s homer, though, all of that seemed to be for naught. Weaver had posted a 2.45 earned run average in interleague play since 2006, the best mark among major league starters. He had preyed on teams from the National League, perhaps, in part, because they were not familiar with his pitches. But he seemed on the verge of disaster all night. In the second, Lucas Duda lifted a fastball for a solo home run over the left-center-field wall, his third homer this season. Weaver walked two batters in the fourth but escaped. His command was off and his fastball sat around 87 miles an hour, but he struck out the side in the fifth. Advertisement Niese, in his second start since coming off the disabled list, was on a 105-pitch limit. But the Mets (5-6) needed him to go deep into the game, having nearly exhausted their bullpen in the 11-inning loss Friday night. The Angels (5-6) struck in the first, with Albert Pujols driving in Collin Cowgill with a single, but Niese settled down and retired 12 of the next 13 batters. Niese was cruising until the fifth, when Chris Iannetta, the Angels’ catcher, ripped a fastball for a solo home run. Cowgill followed with a homer in the sixth. In all, Niese held the Angels to six hits, issued only one walk and struck out five batters. He lasted until the eighth inning, throwing only 96 pitches. Weaver slipped in the seventh. He walked Curtis Granderson on five pitches. With two outs, Duda and Juan Lagares singled, and Granderson scored. After Fernando Salas replaced Weaver, Recker singled home Duda and Lagares, giving the Mets a 4-3 lead. Omar Quintanilla smacked a two-run single in the ninth, extending the lead to 6-3. Niese was in line for the win. But against Valverde in the ninth, the Angels staged a two-out rally. David Freese singled and Erick Aybar walked, bringing Ibanez to the plate. Valverde had tiptoed around trouble twice recently. On April 4, handed a 4-3 lead against the Cincinnati Reds, Valverde allowed two base runners and then retired Joey Votto and Jay Bruce. On Tuesday, with a 4-0 lead against the Braves, Valverde loaded the bases with one out but again found a way out. Speaking with the news media afterward, he made light of the situation and tried to shrug it off. The Mets had won, after all. On Saturday night, though, Ibanez smashed a 1-0 fastball over the right-field wall. Valverde had blown his first save of the season, less than two weeks after taking over for the injured closer Bobby Parnell. “He’s still the closer,” Manager Terry Collins said of Valverde. The Mets’ tired bullpen now had more work to do. Scott Rice and Gonzalez Germen combined to pitch a perfect 10th and 11th. John Lannan (1-0) pitched a perfect 12th and 13th. The relievers other than Valverde allowed one hit in four and two-thirds innings. They made what Valverde failed to do look easy. Go to Home Page »
Travel   Pink Dolphins and Sunsets Along the Amazon. Advertisement Advertisement By MARY BILLARDAPRIL 11, 2014 Sitting on the deck of a small cruise ship called the Aqua, I listened to the never-ending sounds of the Amazonian rain forest. Beside me was a retired executive, a fellow passenger whom I had just met the day before. As the sinking sun bled into the darkening sky and the riverbanks along this tributary of the Peruvian Amazon turned from green to black, he told me of his days in Lagos in the ’70s and Dubai in the ’90s, then lapsed into silence. The moment was all the sweeter because we were playing hooky from an outing to view nocturnal birds, opting for perfectly chilled white wine over mosquitoes. Our solitude was interrupted when a young man dressed in Army fatigues, a holstered gun at his hip, strolled by. My worldly shipboard friend raised a quizzical eyebrow. The armed escort, fortunately, was not a response to a specific threat. In 2009, the luxury Aqua Expeditions cruise ship had been boarded by armed pirates, who robbed the passengers of cameras, cash and jewelry. Ever since then, the Aqua and its sister ship, the Aria, have been accompanied by three armed guards, part of a Peruvian river protection strategy that includes a green speedboat marked Policia de Tourismo that follows the ship. So far, there have been no other incidents. Luxury cruising through the Peruvian Amazon region is a rare and expensive experience, not surprisingly, since operating a posh vessel in an area so remote is a logistical challenge. In addition to Aqua Expeditions, which operates the 12-suite Aqua and the 16-suite Aria, there is Delfin Amazon Cruise, which also has two small ships (one with only four suites). Our boat had just 24 passengers and a design so chic and minimalist it was once a backdrop in a Condé Nast Traveler fashion spread, with models covered in bangles, scarves and flowing dresses draped on the deck chairs. In contrast, my cruise mates wore lightweight khaki clothing and sensible shoes. They were intent on seeing as much of the rich Amazonian flora and fauna as they could on our four-day trip. Our mid-May voyage had started the day before in Iquitos, a port city on the Amazon that can be reached only by plane (a two-hour flight from Lima) or, for the more adventurous, a river journey. My husband and I had opted for the former, meeting most of our fellow travelers at the Iquitos airport before embarking by bus to the ship. The roads in Iquitos were jammed with three-wheel conveyances called motocarros, and were muddy, still swamped from the record high tide during the rainy season. Before boarding, the group went on a stroll at dusk down the riverfront walk. Music spilled from restaurants and bars. A few of the buildings we passed had elaborate grilled terraces, remnants of a colonial boomtown surrounded by rubber plantations. The 1982 Werner Herzog movie, “Fitzcarraldo,” was based on a local historical figure and filmed in the area, and there is a popular bar named after the would-be opera impresario and rubber baron. Advertisement Then we boarded the Aqua, which would be our home for the next three nights as we cruised down the Amazon and its many tributaries, making our way to the Pacaya-Samiria National Reserve, one of the largest protected areas in Peru. Advertisement For the most part, my fellow travelers were experienced, passionate, knowledgeable animal lovers and birders, among them a group from Natural Habitat Adventures, a travel partner of the World Wildlife Fund. Most were armed with state-of-the-art binoculars and telephoto lenses the size of bazookas. A nature-travel neophyte, I was equipped with an iPhone camera. I soon learned, however, that even the most serious wildlife lover is prone to cruise antics, such as a conga line fueled by pisco, a potent grape brandy. In the early mornings and late afternoons, when it was less humid and animal sightings were more likely, there were excursions in aluminum skiffs. The boats carried a maximum of 10 passengers, along with one of the ship’s three naturalists who kept an eye out for animals hidden in the mahogany, kapok and Brazil nut trees. On the first outing, the operator of the skiff pulled it close to the shoreline, and we sat quietly as the guide pointed out a sloth and explained sotto voce how it conserved energy by moving slowly as it lumbered between the towering trees. The only other sound was the click of cameras. Later, we would spot squirrel monkeys leaping from tree to tree. The mammals, accessible and charming, proved to be a gateway drug to the birds, which, for me, were a revelation. The naturalist patiently showed me how to use my rental field glasses, moving my gaze from branch to branch until I found my visual prey. Eventually, I spotted some macaws flashing their Technicolor plumage as they circled around and returned to the towering treetops. I exclaimed, to the amusement of my skiff mates: “These binoculars really work. Beautiful!” The excursions offered a strong sense of place. We explored estuaries and were enveloped in the humid rain forest. The sun beat down; we slathered on bug repellent or, alternatively, pulled on ponchos during sudden rainstorms. We visited a local village where we sat in a one-room school in pint-size chairs, listening to the children sing. colombia Quito ecuador Iquitos Pacaya- Samiria national Reserve Amazon   RÍo Ucayali brazil PERU Pacific Ocean Lima 200 miles Then we returned to the creature comforts of hot showers, air-conditioning, an attentive crew, immaculate housekeeping and nonstop dining on everything from Thai food to local fare like Amazon bass, tiger catfish, Andean trout, ribbons of hearts of palm and a dizzying amount of camu camu and other local fresh fruits. Between excursions, I relaxed happily in my cabin, listening to the soundtrack of “The Mission” — the 1986 movie filmed in the rivers and jungles of South America — on my iPad. I lay on my bed watching the landscape at a proper remove. It slipped past the panoramic picture window: the river, by turns gray and brown; the dense jungle canopy; and, above it all, overlapping white clouds and a smattering of blue sky. Advertisement On the skiffs, entranced by my surroundings, I only vaguely tuned in when the guides provided information on the various species of birds, which included vultures, parakeets and macaws. But in my cabin, I obsessed over the accordion-folding “Wildlife Checklist” given to each guest. What did we see? Was it a black vulture, coragyps atratus, known locally as a gallinazo negro? Or the rarer king vulture, sarcoramphus papa, also called condor Amazónico? I pondered whether I had actually spotted a cobalt-winged parakeet. On our second morning, I woke before sunrise and drank my coffee next to the bridge. The sun was a thin band of blazing light on the horizon that cast a pink reflection on the water. A curtain of gray clouds battled for control of the sky. Gazing at the water, I saw the familiar elegant arch of a dolphin and the rings it created as it dipped back into the water. Until this trip, I did not even know that such creatures as river dolphins existed. I saw more and more of the fleeting arches. And appropriately, given the morning’s pink-on-gray color scheme, I was gratified to find two river dolphins on the checklist: pink (inia geoffrensis) and gray (sotalia fluviatilis). Andrea Reynolds, an adventure specialist and expedition leader for Natural Habitats, later told me that she was shocked to see so many pink river dolphins. Ms. Reynolds was the perfect companion, willing to indulge in a frosty beer on the skiffs, and a knowledgeable animal enthusiast on the jungle walk and skiff excursions. “Cruising on a boat, you know there are things in the scenery you can only imagine,” she said. “It was excellent to get out and see the little critters, like insects, tarantulas, the poison frogs, that you don’t see floating.” She did not mention the anaconda, which another lucky group of travelers ran into on an excursion. It has been almost a year since my journey. I still find myself turning to books like Peter Matthiessen’s “At Play in the Fields of the Lord,” about missionaries, mercenaries and hallucinogens in the South American jungle, and Redmond O’Hanlon’s “In Trouble Again: A Journey Between the Orinoco and the Amazon,” about his escapades in a monthslong journey in a dugout canoe. “The Mission” soundtrack is in frequent rotation on my playlists. I even notice there are birds in Manhattan. One of my iPhone photos — a river view below a blue sky touched with pink — is now my screen saver. I cannot remember if it was sunrise or sunset. And I keep staring at close-ups of two birds that a new friend whom I met on the cruise posted on Facebook. Bright orange chests and bright blue wings. I think they are macaws. A picture credit on April 13 with an article about a luxury cruise on the Amazon in Peru misspelled the surname of the photographer who took the picture of a sunset and the cruise ship. She is Megan Koelemay, not Koolemay. Aqua Expeditions has two ships that explore the Peruvian Amazon. The Aqua Amazon three-night cruise starts at $2,850; the seven-night cruise at $6,650. The Aria Amazon three-night cruise starts at $3,000; the seven-night at $7,000. Rates are per person based on double occupancy, and do not include flights. Cruises run year-round. Information: aquaexpeditions.com. A version of this article appears in print on April 13, 2014, on page TR12 of the New York edition with the headline: Sunsets and Pink Dolphins Along the Amazon. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
U.S.   Liz Norden. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Video Liz Norden By Katherine Taylor | Apr. 14, 2014 | 0:53 “You don’t know what your place is. You want to help them, but you know they want to do it on their own too,” Ms. Norden said of her two sons. Show More PlaylistUp Next in Video Next → Op-Docs: Season 5 9:23 I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked   Video1:08 Hitting all the Right Notes Op-Docs: Season 5 13:33 Manufacturing China’s Future Op-Docs: Season 5 6:05 Fashion vs. Art   Video0:56 Excerpt: ‘The Father’   Video0:33 Excerpt: ‘Exit Strategy’ Op-Docs: Season 5 7:19 A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race   Video1:58 Excerpt: ‘Antlia Pneumatica’   News Clips: Europe1:20 Officials React to Panama Papers   News Clips: Europe3:47 Mossack Fonseca on Data Leak © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Arts   Coachella 2014: Day 3. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » The New York Times Coachella 2014: Day 3 Close this slideshow Slide Go to previous slide Go to next slide With temperatures reaching 90 degrees, concertgoers created their own shade on the sun-baked festival grounds.   Read more CreditEmily Berl for The New York Times Supported by Loading... 1 of 11 Go to previous slide Go to next slide Share This Slide Show Restart Slide Show More Slide Shows The Key to Cuban Ballet’s Future A look at the National Ballet School in Havana. The Key to Cuban Ballet’s Future Cuban Dance, Modern Again Photographer Charles Gatewood For Rising Stars, Where It All Began When Pigeons Fly, Art Takes Wing ‘Housewives’ at 10 Years Old Inspired by an Old Tradition Big Ears, a Music Festival With a Rare Vision From the Archives: Martha Graham and Her Dancers The New York Times
Business   Batter’s Reward. Advertisement By Gary Cee Apr 15, 2014 The New York Times Crossword is available through subscription only. TUESDAY’S PUZZLE — Batter up! Gary Cee is back, and he, like many sports fans, is dreaming about baseball. Today, Mr. Cee is going to make sure that we get on base by any means necessary, even if it means walking us. The phrase BASE ON BALLS is better known as a walk, which means that a batter has received four pitches that the umpire calls balls. Today, we have four phrases whose first words are four pitches that somehow went awry — HIGH, INSIDE, LOW and OUTSIDE — and the theme is wrapped up neatly at 63 Across with the revealer BASE ON BALLS. I like how 18 Down, a baseball entry (RBIS), crossed the top theme entry HIGH TREASON, but was alarmed that the dingoes are after my EMUs. And for those of us who grew up on the adventures of Archie, Betty, Veronica and the rest of the TEENS in the fictional Riverdale, here’s some horrifyingly sad news about what they have planned for young Mr. Andrews in his apparently limited future. In nontheme news, I really liked seeing DOGGIE BAG in the grid, and MARSEILLE brought back nice memories of my adventures in the south of France. I’m not sure I’d accept ORLON as an alternative for cashmere (is there really a substitute?); I always thought of it as an alternative for silk, but maybe they are making faux cashmere with it these days. Now that we’re solidly on base, let’s hear from Mr. Cee: The original idea was TAKE YOUR BASE as the revealer, clued as “What a batter hears after hearing the starts of …” But 12 letters didn’t lead to a clean fill and do umpires even say “Take Your Base?” So I switched to BASE ON BALLS and was able to pull it off. I’m in the middle of developing a crossword app of my own and hope to be in the App Store by July 1, but in the meantime, you are invited to “like” the Facebook page to stay up-to-date on how it’s going. Nicely done, Mr. Cee. We see a lot of URIAH Heep in different forms in our crossword puzzle. He’s the “yes man” in Dickens’s “David Copperfield,” but it’s also the name of one of the top rock groups from the 1970s. Here they are singing their hit “Lady in Black”: Your thoughts? Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. David Kahn puts us through the wringer.Read more… Emily Cox and Henry Rathvon offer us a challenging cryptic crossword puzzle.Read more… A place for solvers to discuss and ask questions about the “A Little Variety” suite of puzzles.Read more… Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Food   Food Curated: La Vara’s Churros. Channels & Shows Home Search Food Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Food Food Curated: La Vara’s Churros By Liza de Guia | Apr. 14, 2014 | 4:42 The perfect churro is eaten fresh from the fryer, says Alex Raij, co-owner of La Vara in Brooklyn. She created a brunch churro that balances a sweet, crunchy exterior with a moist eggy interior. Related: article: Video: La Vara’s Churros Show More PlaylistUp Next in Food Next → Melissa Clark Food2:08 Coconut Cluster Granola   International1:04 McDonald’s Copycat in Separatist Ukraine Melissa Clark Food1:51 Green Garlic Tabbouleh   Food1:46 Beer-Brined Roast Chicken | Taste Makers   Taste Makers6:32 Finding Your Flavors in the Kitchen | Taste Makers   Food1:12 Tomatillo Pineapple Salsa | Taste Makers   Taste Makers5:40 Growing Organics ‘Sin Fronteras’ | Taste Makers   Food1:16 Jollof Rice | Taste Makers   Taste Makers6:01 Nigerian Food, Crash-and-Burn Style | Taste Makers Melissa Clark Food2:33 Chicken and Artichokes © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Foreign   Image of the Day: April 14. Advertisement   India’s national elections began April 7 and will continue on nine separate dates until May 12, with results expected to be announced on May 16. The vote is the world’s largest, with 814 million eligible voters set to choose 543 members of the lower house of Parliament. The other two seats will be appointed by the president. This election is widely considered to be India’s most consequential since 1977. India Ink will be moving to the World page of The New York Times. Read more… A memorial ceremony at the Imphal War Cemetery in Manipur to honor the soldiers who died during World War II.Read more… The newly elected prime minister reaches out to the public in a blog post about his first 30 days in office.Read more… Newborns whose mothers are unable to breastfeed are given stored breast milk to protect them from potentially life-threatening infection.Read more… In the final stage of a long decline, Hindustan Motors announced in May that it would suspend production of the Ambassador, a car that was once synonymous with style and status.Read more… This report on India from the journalists of The New York Times and a pool of talented writers in India and beyond provides unbiased, authoritative reporting on the country and its place in the world. India Ink also strives to be a virtual meeting point for discussion of this complex, fast-changing democracy – its politics, economy, culture and everyday life. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Science   5 Things to Know About Quinoa Sign Up for the Running Email. Advertisement Tara Parker-Pope on living well. This week, a new food is appearing on Passover tables around the country. The Orthodox Union, the authority on kosher foods, recently ruled that certain brands of quinoa could carry its “Kosher for Passover” symbol. “Passover is a more limited diet,” said Rabbi Menachem Genack, chief executive of O.U. Kosher. “If you can increase the universe of foods that can be used, people are really happy about it.” The decision to make some quinoa kosher is the latest boost to the venerable plant, which has surged in popularity in recent years as a high-protein, vegan and gluten-free food. Here are five things to know about this healthful food. WHAT DOES QUINOA TASTE LIKE? Are you searching for a new vegetarian or vegan recipe? Try our new Eat Well Recipe Finder, which offers hundreds of healthful soups, sides, main courses, salads and desserts.  Quinoa is an ancient food from South America. While it looks a bit like rice, it has a richer, heartier flavor and crunchier texture. Dietriffic.com describes the taste as “brown rice crossed with oatmeal” that is “fluffy, creamy, crunchy and somewhat nutty, all rolled into one.” Stonesoup calls it “something a little like barley with its chewiness,” combined with a “a light fluffiness akin to well-prepared couscous.” Not everyone is a fan. A Vancouver Observer columnist recently listed “five reasons to hate quinoa,” including that some types of uncooked quinoa have the translucent appearance of silica gel, and that it tastes like “beige.” WHY IS QUINOA SUDDENLY SO POPULAR? While quinoa seems to have became fashionable overnight, its rise has been years in the making. In 1913, The New York Times reported that quinoa was among 400 “charming botanical strangers” to be introduced in the United States by the Department of Agriculture. Food writers have been talking about its nutritional quality and taste since the 1980s, but it remained primarily a niche health-store product. Quinoa’s popularity stems from its reputation as a “complete” food. It has a protein content of about 15 percent, and a balance of important amino acids, magnesium, calcium, and other minerals and vitamins. In 2008, Oprah Winfrey embarked on a 21-day “cleanse” diet that included quinoa with mushrooms, herbs and garlic as comfort food. Retailers like Costco, Trader Joe’s and Whole Foods also began to carry and promote quinoa. Quinoa imports began to surge around 2008, doubling from 2006, according to the Whole Grains Council. Datamyne reports that the United States imported about 25,000 metric tons of quinoa in 2012, up from about 5,000 in 2008. In 2010, a cookbook, “Quinoa 365: The Everyday Superfood” by Patricia Green and Carolyn Hemming, became a best seller. The United Nations labeled 2013 the International Year of Quinoa, and recipes using quinoa are now a staple of food blogs and cooking columns. “Even though it seems like overnight, there hasn’t been one single event that has catalyzed the popularity of quinoa,” said Kevin Murphy, an assistant professor of barley and alternative crop breeding at Washington State University. “When we started doing quinoa research, people would laugh. Nobody knew what it was.” HOW DID QUINOA BECOME KOSHER? Rabbi Genack said the Orthodox Union was divided about the question. During Passover, leavened foods that contain wheat, barley, rye, spelt or oats are forbidden. (The tradition stems from a historical anecdote: When the Jews escaped Egypt, they didn’t have time to let their breads rise before going into the desert.) Quinoa is not a grain; it’s actually more closely related to beets and spinach. But foods that may be confused with grain or grown near wheat fields may not be deemed kosher. To make its decision about quinoa, the union sent a rabbi to the Andes Mountains in Bolivia to investigate how and where quinoa is grown. He found that it was not grown near wheat, and the union decided to allow certain Bolivian quinoa products to carry its kosher endorsement. HOW DO YOU COOK QUINOA? Quinoa can be cooked like rice or boiled vigorously like pasta. Home cooks and food writers experiment with different methods, depending on whether they want a crunchier or creamier texture. Martha Rose Shulman, who writes the Recipes for Health column in The New York Times, said she recently reduced the amount of water she uses to cook quinoa. “The grains were tighter and less moist than quinoa cooked in abundant water, and the yield was not as great because the grains don’t swell as much,” she wrote. “But I liked the results.” WHAT IS THE FUTURE OF QUINOA? Most quinoa eaten in the United States comes from South America, where farmers are eager to cultivate the plant because of rising prices. (Some llama herders are reported to have switched to quinoa farming because it is more lucrative.) The Department of Agriculture has awarded a grant to researchers at Washington State who are studying ways to help farmers grow quinoa. Currently, 35 varieties are cultivated in the United States, and scientists are trying to determine the best growing conditions. In one study, researchers are trying to determine if quinoa plants are more resistant to certain insects than wheat and barley are. “Not a day goes by that I don’t get five or six emails and calls from farmers asking what seeds to plant or how to grow it,” Dr. Murphy said. A version of this article appears in print on 04/15/2014, on page D4 of the NewYork edition with the headline: A Trendy Food, Now Kosher. Your health questions answered by Times journalists and experts. Your Questions | All » Get Well's Running email for practical tips, expert advice, exclusive content and a bit of motivation delivered to your inbox every week to help you on your running journey. Coming soon. How much do you know about the amazing things that go on in your gut? Take our quiz to find out about the creepy, crawly critters living in your home. What surface is the most friendly to the flu virus? Where’s the best place to stand when you’re talking to a sick person? How does sleep affect health, relationships and well-being? The “Reading the Mind in the Eyes Test” measures ability to understand others’ emotional states. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   N.B.A. Game of the Week: Grizzlies at Suns. Advertisement Advertisement By JONAH BROMWICHAPRIL 14, 2014 Every week, The New York Times will choose one essential game to watch, highlighting hot teams, winning and losing streaks and statistical intrigue in the N.B.A. Memphis at Phoenix, Monday, 10 p.m. Eastern Saturday’s N.B.A. matchup between Dallas and Phoenix kicked off a round robin of three teams, the Mavericks, the Suns and the Memphis Grizzlies, on the cusp of making the playoffs in the Western Conference. But by beating the Suns, the Mavericks clinched a berth, leaving the other two to battle it out for the final spot in the conference. Memphis will have a chance to all but lock up a berth Monday at Phoenix, a head-to-head battle that should make the fight for the eighth seed even more exciting. Unlike the postseason race in the Eastern Conference, in which the Atlanta Hawks and the Knicks sometimes seemed to be hoping for a mid-April vacation, the battle between the Grizzlies and the Suns features two solid teams deserving of a chance to extend their seasons. Memphis has the upper hand, with a one-game lead on the Suns after defeating the Los Angeles Lakers, 102-90, on Sunday night and the tiebreaker in its possession. To leapfrog the Grizzlies, Phoenix will most likely need victories Monday and Wednesday (the latter game is against Sacramento), and a Memphis loss to Dallas on Wednesday. The end of the regular season has been more exciting than usual. Advertisement Phoenix is an up-tempo team, led by guards Goran Dragic and Eric Bledsoe, the two most potent scorers on an offense that is one of the most efficient in the league. The Suns are liable to outscore almost anyone, as they showed against the Oklahoma City Thunder last week with a 122-115 victory in regulation. But few teams are better poised to stop the Suns’ attack than the Grizzlies, with their grind-it-out defense and their ability to outrebound opponents. Relying on those strengths, the Grizzlies beat the Suns in their three previous games this season, outrebounding the Suns and outscoring them in the paint in all three games while proving the old maxim that defense beats offense. Yet Phoenix fans have every reason to hope. The Suns have played a difficult schedule recently, with five of their past six opponents bound for the playoffs, but they have more than held their own, beating the Thunder and the Portland Trail Blazers and losing hard-fought games to the Los Angeles Clippers and the San Antonio Spurs. In their previous games against the Grizzlies, the Suns have shot well below average, and although part of that can be attributed to Memphis’s defense, the Grizzlies are not particularly good at altering opponents’ field-goal percentages. With a better shooting night, the Suns just may be able to knock the Grizzlies on their heels. The game should come down to pace. The Suns must be sure to keep things moving quickly, scoring early in the shot clock and getting out on the break as fast as possible to try to rattle the Grizzlies, the slowest team in the league, according to ESPN’s pace factor. As for Memphis, the Grizzlies will have to be cautious with the basketball and be sure to guard the arc: Turnovers and 3-pointers may be the easiest way for Phoenix to discover an advantage. Go to Home Page »
Technology   Barton on ‘Power to the People’. Channels & Shows Home Search Technology Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Technology Barton on ‘Power to the People’ By Nick Wingfield | Apr. 14, 2014 | 1:03 Richard Barton describes the philosophy behind many of his businesses, which are meant to empower people in new ways. Show More PlaylistUp Next in Technology Next →   Business1:31 Fiat Chief on New Innovation Ideas   Technology0:37 Australian Says He Created Bitcoin Retro Report U.S. & Politics11:41 The Terminator and the Washing Machine   Business1:33 Is Apple Right in Defying the F.B.I.? App Smart Technology2:08 App Smart | The Dating Game App Smart Technology2:11 App Smart | Day Trackers App Smart Technology2:08 App Smart | Fresh From CES App Smart Technology2:08 App Smart | Digital Diaries App Smart Technology2:11 App Smart | 2016 Trends App Smart Technology2:10 Goals for the New Year © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Travel   Once a Palace, Now a Lake Como Hotel. Advertisement Most of the upscale hotels in Lake Como, Italy, have been around for decades, but that’s set to change on June 1 with the opening of Il Palazzo del Vice Re in the medieval lakeside  village of Lezzeno. The five-room luxury property is a renovated Italian Renaissance palace that was home to the viceroys of Spain in the 16th and 17th centuries when the Spanish ruled the territory. The rooms range between 320 and 2,500 square feet and are each uniquely decorated. A two-level suite, for example, has antique furniture and a large covered terrace with views of the lake and the  surrounding mountains while another room has high ceilings and hand-painted 18th-century frescoes of the Greek god Juno. Guests get a range of  included amenities like breakfast, afternoon tea, Wi-Fi, bikes for exploring the area, toiletries made nearby using locally grown lavender, and wine and cheese tastings in the cantina. The manager, Andrea Grisdale, said the appeal of the property is getting an authentic experience in what can be a touristy region. “This is not a town that travelers typically visit, and your neighbors are all locals, so you really get a sense of place,” she said. The hotel will close mid-November for the winter and reopen again on March 1 of next year. Rates from 280 euros (about $377) a night for two people. In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
U.S.   Family of Shooting Victims Speaks Out. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Video Family of Shooting Victims Speaks Out Apr. 15, 2014 | 1:22 Mindy Corporon and Will Corporon spoke after their family members were killed on Sunday at the Jewish Community Center in Kansas. Show More PlaylistUp Next in Video Next → Op-Docs: Season 5 9:23 I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked   Video1:08 Hitting all the Right Notes Op-Docs: Season 5 13:33 Manufacturing China’s Future Op-Docs: Season 5 6:05 Fashion vs. Art   Video0:56 Excerpt: ‘The Father’   Video0:33 Excerpt: ‘Exit Strategy’ Op-Docs: Season 5 7:19 A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race   Video1:58 Excerpt: ‘Antlia Pneumatica’   News Clips: Europe1:20 Officials React to Panama Papers   News Clips: Europe3:47 Mossack Fonseca on Data Leak © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Business   SoftBank Shares Get Lift From Alibaba, Too. Advertisement HONG KONG — Yahoo isn’t the only company tagging along for Alibaba’s magic carpet ride. Shares in SoftBank, the Japanese telecommunications company, closed 8.5 percent higher in Tokyo on Wednesday because of strong profit and revenue growth at Alibaba. SoftBank owns about 37 percent of Alibaba, the Chinese e-commerce giant that is moving forward with plans for an initial public offering in the United States. The I.P.O. is expected to be one of the world’s biggest since Facebook raised $16 billion two years ago. Like Yahoo, which owns 24 percent of Alibaba, SoftBank’s stock has partly served as a proxy for investors seeking to bet on the Chinese company’s rapid growth. The Japanese company, controlled by the billionaire investor Masayoshi Son, invested about $20 million in Alibaba nearly 15 years ago. Alibaba reported $1.4 billion in profit for the fourth quarter of 2013, more than double the results in the period a year earlier, Yahoo said Tuesday in a United States stock exchange filing. Revenue jumped 66 percent, to nearly $3.1 billion. Both SoftBank and Yahoo have experienced significant rallies in their shares, driven partly by Alibaba’s strong growth and expectations that the Chinese company’s I.P.O. will be a blockbuster. SoftBank’s stock has risen about 75 percent in the past year, while Yahoo’s is up 42 percent. But despite having a larger stake in Alibaba than Yahoo, SoftBank may offer less direct exposure to the Chinese company’s performance. The Japanese company is much larger than Yahoo, with a market capitalization of 8.4 trillion yen, or about $82 billion, compared with Yahoo’s $34.5 billion. In addition to its Japanese telecommunications business, SoftBank controls Sprint, the American mobile carrier, and is the biggest single shareholder of Yahoo Japan. In recent months, SoftBank has been reshuffling assets among its units, including a $3.2 billion deal last month involving Yahoo Japan — the nation’s biggest Internet portal — and eAccess, a mobile Internet service provider. For investors whose main focus is the Alibaba I.P.O., SoftBank’s other businesses are more of a distraction than an attraction. That is probably one reason SoftBank’s shares are less expensive than Yahoo’s, trading at about 15 times trailing earnings, compared with a multiple of 28 for Yahoo. A version of this article appears in print on 04/17/2014, on page B2 of the NewYork edition with the headline: SoftBank Shares Get Lift From Alibaba, Too. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   Days of Tea and Honey: Memories of a Quiet Iraq. Advertisement Six months ago, a suicide bomber killed 13 children at a school playground in Qabak, Iraq, a town near Tal Afar in the northern province of Nineveh. I was dismayed to read the news. My platoon visited Qabak often during our deployment in 2009. It was quiet then. Iraq, we thought, had finally achieved a tentative peace. What I remember from that country is not the violence but my encounters with Iraqis: curious children who moved in small bands; idle men with their questioning stares; and, most clearly of all, village elders — the elders of Nineveh. The first elder I met was at least 80 years old, although it was hard to tell and he wasn’t sure himself. He had seen a king in power before the dictatorship. “We view you as occupiers,” he said. “There was order under Saddam. The military was respected. Now the army has no standards. They recruit anyone.” His family prepared a feast to welcome us Marines to his village. We sat cross-legged on a blue plastic tarp around a mountain of rice served on a large silver platter. He reached for the best pieces of chicken and placed them against my knees on the dish we shared. The elders stood on ritual. Over tea (dark, with lots of sugar), they asked questions about America, launching a conversation that could last for hours. Most questions were about family. Was I married? How many children did I have? I explained that most Americans don’t get married until they’re well into their twenties. In the wealthier villages, they served bitter coffee with the consistency of tar. The poorest villages had neither tea nor coffee, just a bowl of water from the well. I drank from the bowl and passed it to my neighbor. Most patrols ended with an evening visit to the elder’s compound. While Marines stood watch outside, I would remove my protective gear — helmet, ballistic glasses, body armor with thick ceramic plates — and set it with my weapon against the wall of a meeting room often furnished with little more than a few cushions and a carpet to cover the earthen floor. There were directives against removing gear but Iraqis considered it rude to keep it on. It left them with the impression that the elders were somehow untrustworthy. And Arab hospitality is considered sacred; no harm will come to a guest once he has passed the threshold of a home. On one visit, the elder and I sat on his best carpet, illuminated by a flickering oil lamp that cast long shadows into obscured corners of the meeting room. Villagers gathered around us, the children smiling at my broken Arabic. He told me the story of an American convoy that had passed near the village some time before. One of the lumbering trucks had drifted from the road and flattened a farm tool. He and I walked down a dirt path in the dim twilight to inspect the damage. At the end of the path on the edge of a barren field abutting the only paved road for miles around, the elder pointed to a crudely welded tiller with a harness for draft animals. The tiller was damaged beyond repair. I asked him if anyone from the convoy had stopped. He said he wasn’t sure. The convoys traveled at night. No one saw the damage until morning. I took the elder’s name and promised I would submit an official claim card for damages due. He did not want the money, he said. He was just happy to speak to an American about the damage. But he took the dinar when I came back with our battalion’s public affairs officer. For most of our deployment, we in the platoon lived like nomads. At night we drove into the hills, away from the towns and villages, and placed our vehicles in a wide circle at 90-degree increments. Coiling up, we called it. During midnight watches, standing alone in the turret while Marines slept in filthy sleeping bags on the ground below, I often heard faint voices in the static between radio checks. At daybreak, we awoke to the sound of the call to prayer drifting up from a mosque in one of the villages. In Mir Qasim, I met Mohammad Shafiq, a 32-year veteran of the Iraqi Army. Mir Qasim was a prosperous village until drought turned its green hills brown. Most of the villagers moved away when the rains stopped. The rain left behind a brackish well, tucked into a fold of the landscape, that Mr. Shafiq used to tend to a vegetable garden. He offered me a breakfast of flatbread and yogurt with honey. While we drank tea in the shade on a stone terrace in front of his home, a few of the Marines helped the village children attach a new rope above the well to replace the worn length of strand, which lowered jugs a hundred feet into the water. In Saddam’s army, Mr. Shafiq had been a warrant officer of the air defense corps, he said, tasked during the 1991 Persian Gulf War with staging what was a hopeless defense against American stealth bombers. I remembered the coverage on CNN: Wolf Blitzer extolling the virtues of our superior technology. I was 10-years-old then and it had all seemed like a game. None of our guys got hurt. But now I pictured my host and his men dying in flashes of light, confused and impotent. He brought up the hardships of military life, of being away from home. “Does your family miss you?” he asked. “Yes, very much,” I replied. Every knock at the door must have been a small torture for my mother, who feared the worst and didn’t hear from me for weeks at a time. Mr. Shafiq and I discussed our training. “How much did you carry in your packs?” he asked. I couldn’t remember. “A lot,” I replied. When he was a young recruit he’d carried 90 pounds of stones in his, he said. In the months that followed the invasion of 2003, Mr. Shafiq was dishonorably discharged and labeled a loyalist to the fallen regime. After three decades of faithful service, he resented the provisional government for disowning him and many of his comrades. He refused to let his sons join the new army, even though there were no other jobs. “Why did you disband the army?” he asked. “It was our strongest institution. Many of its officers were against Saddam. They were waiting for a chance to build a new Iraq. Instead, they joined the insurgency.” I thought and offered, “Wasn’t it more complicated than that?” He laughed. “We lived in peace for generations,” Mr. Shafiq said. “I am Sunni and have a Shia wife. My second wife is Sunni. If I take a third wife, I would like to marry a Christian.” We climbed a steep hill, following the outline of an eroded stone wall. In biblical times, a fort stood atop the hill, holding sway over the villages below. I could see for miles in all directions — a vast, empty country. There were many more settlements back then, he explained. The wall curved back toward the village. The Marines showed the children how to coil the new well rope so that it would not fray. Mr. Shafiq offered the Marines cigarettes. He insisted I stay for lunch, but I received a radio call that there had been an attack on a police outpost. I promised we would visit again. In July and August, sand storms swept across our corner of Iraq, gathering strength over hundreds of miles of open desert, like hurricanes over the Atlantic. On the horizon a brown wave appeared. Very quickly the wave was upon us and visibility was zero. There was nothing to do but coil up and seal the hatches of our vehicles against the flying sand. After one especially long storm, the platoon was granted a reprieve from the field: two days of rest inside a large Army base 100 miles away. For the first time in weeks, we could let our guards down. Someone else was on watch. It was odd to spend the night indoors on a mattress in the neatly ordered rows of air-conditioned trailers, so much so that I couldn’t sleep. I sat on the edge of my bunk, writing emails from a laptop I kept sealed in a water-proof bag under the ammo cans in my vehicle. I wrote to a woman I had met in the months before deployment. But she hadn’t written back and I guessed that my chances of seeing her again were slim. Earlier that night I had called my mother. Her voice broke at the end of my allotted 10 minutes. I shouldn’t have called, I thought. On the bunk above mine, our platoon sergeant was snoring loudly in reply to the air conditioner’s drone. He was on his fourth consecutive deployment and had seen the worst of the violence. Judging from the news, his memories of Iraq from those dark years were closer to today’s reality than mine. Blake Rice served in the Marines as an infantry officer in Iraq and Afghanistan. He is the co-founder of District Line Partners, an investment fund in Washington, D.C. At War is a reported blog from Afghanistan, Pakistan, Iraq and other conflicts in the post-9/11 era. The New York Times's award-winning team provides insight — and answers questions — about combatants on the faultlines, and civilians caught in the middle. The New York Times has established an education fund for the children of Sultan Munadi, an Afghan journalist who was slain in Afghanistan in 2009. Learn more about him and how you can contribute here. » Marine Corps Captain Calum Rammhe, a longtime marathon runner, ran seven marathons on seven continents in seven days to raise money for a charity that supports wounded Marines and their families. It also let him reflect on why running is more than a hobby for him. Read more… A physical therapist describes the powerful bonds she formed with the wounded veterans and her fellow physical and occupational therapists at the Walter Reed Army Medical Center. Read more… A former Marine Corps officer argues that good leadership makes all the difference in smoothing the integration of women into combat units. Read more… Hundreds of letters from an Army private named Harold Grove Moss, whose tour of duty spanned Pearl Harbor to the surrender of Japan, have been transcribed and posted online by his daughter. Read more… A Vietnam-era veteran says presidential candidates should not be judged harshly just because they did not serve during that war. Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Movies   Flailing, Befuddled Youth. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » The New York Times Flailing, Befuddled Youth Close this slideshow Slide Go to previous slide Go to next slide “Flailing youth befuddled and intimidated by a forbiddingly complex world is a theme that seeps into the bloodstream of this year’s Tribeca Film Festival,” writes Stephen Holden. The festival runs April 16-27. Following are images from films playing in this year’s installment. Rory Culkin in “Gabriel,” directed by Lou Howe. Read more CreditGabriel Supported by Loading... 1 of 15 Go to previous slide Go to next slide Share This Slide Show Restart Slide Show More Slide Shows Queer Cinema Before Stonewall Select images from films playing in the Film Society of Lincoln Center series. Queer Cinema Before Stonewall Stars Celebrate at the Governors Ball Backstage at the Oscars Playing at the New York International Children’s Film Festival The Films of Michael Mann Oscar Nominated Shorts in Pictures Alan Rickman (1946-2016) A Look at ‘Boy and the World’ Playing at Doc NYC The New York Times
Science   Refusals Cut Options After C-Sections. Advertisement Advertisement By DAN FROSCHAPRIL 14, 2014 CASPER, Wyo. — When Marie Scott, a child-care worker turned stay-at-home mother, found out she was pregnant again last year, she knew she wanted a traditional birth. The cesarean section she’d had with her firstborn had been painful, and recovery difficult and draining, she told her doctor. But Ms. Scott, 30, quickly learned that the only full-service hospital within easy driving distance, Wyoming Medical Center in Casper, had a policy against vaginal births after cesareans. So instead she traveled 180 miles to a hospital in Cheyenne that was willing to perform the procedure. “It was much less than ideal,” said Ms. Scott, who spent three weeks living with friends in Cheyenne before having a girl, Lilliana, vaginally last October. “It was very difficult being away from my husband, and the family being separated,” she said. Guidelines issued by the American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists in 2010 said that vaginal births after cesareans — the shorthand is V.B.A.C.s — are largely safe. Despite this, many hospitals and doctors still do not perform them for fear of complications. Hospitals note that V.B.A.C.s carry a slightly higher risk of uterine rupture, and some say they cannot afford to keep staff at the ready if something goes wrong. Advertisement The reluctance to adopt the guidelines has been especially strong in rural areas, where medical resources are sparse and doctors tend to prefer repeat cesareans, despite a nationwide push to reduce the number of women having these procedures. The proscription upsets many women who want to give birth vaginally — to avoid the discomfort and potential complications of repeat cesareans — but find they have to travel considerable distances to do so. In Casper, which draws patients from a wide swath of rural Wyoming, a group of women has begun a public push to change the hospital’s V.B.A.C. policy. “I feel like I don’t have a choice,” said one of the women, Mandie Parrill, 25, who moved here recently from Idaho with her husband. Ms. Parrill had a prior cesarean section and spent weeks wrestling with where to give birth. Ultimately, Ms. Parrill had her third child, a girl, via a cesarean at the hospital in Casper last month. Dr. Carol Solie, the chief medical officer of Wyoming Medical Center, which advises patients against the procedure, said the hospital did not have enough staff to put doctors and anesthesiologists on call each time a woman who wanted a V.B.A.C. went into labor, which is recommended under the new guidelines. “We don’t have resources to have a team standing by while someone labors in case they need to be rushed to the operating room,” she said. But the national obstetrics group said the likelihood of a uterine rupture is low, from 0.5 to 0.9 percent. And though V.B.A.C.s were once viewed as riskier than repeat cesareans, the updated guidelines call the procedure a safe way for women to avoid major abdominal surgery and reduce the risk of infection. Advertisement While it is unclear how many hospitals still have restrictive V.B.A.C. policies, public health data show little change despite the new guidelines. A 2012 study conducted by researchers at the University of California, San Francisco, and elsewhere found that nearly half of California hospitals that handle births still do not offer V.B.A.C.s. Many hospitals that allow the procedure have just a few doctors handling them, the study found; many doctors are unwilling to perform V.B.A.C.s because of requirements that they be present during labor. “Time is money for physicians, and they don’t want to have to spend their time hanging around waiting for women in labor,” said Mary Barger, an associate professor of nursing at the University of San Diego, and one of the study’s authors. Dr. Jeanne A. Conry, president of the national obstetrics group, said she was concerned and surprised that more hospitals had not made it easier for women to have V.B.A.C.s. “When the statement came out, we had hope that it was going to bring about changes. It hasn’t,” said Dr. Conry, assistant physician in chief at the Permanente Medical Group in Roseville, Calif. Dr. Conry said she and other doctors at her hospital strongly encouraged V.B.A.C.s because they are less invasive. In Casper, however, hospital administrators decided to keep their V.B.A.C. policy after reviewing it last year. Dr. Solie said these patients could still have a vaginal birth if they signed a consent form accepting responsibility for acting against their doctor’s counsel and acknowledging being advised of an “inappropriate risk.” Advertisement Maternity organizations said they continued to hear from women seeking V.B.A.C.s who faced logistical hurdles. “A lot of women get stuck looking for new providers,” said Cristen Pascucci, the vice president of ImprovingBirth.org, a group that advocates fewer cesareans and that has been working with the women in Wyoming, “And then it becomes balancing act,” she added. “Can I travel two hours? Can I get child care to take care of my other two kids? Can we afford to do this?” A version of this article appears in print on April 15, 2014, on page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: Refusals Cut Options After C-Sections. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Sports   Mets’ Win Does Not Come Without Its Costs. Advertisement Advertisement By TIM ROHANAPRIL 15, 2014 PHOENIX — Juan Lagares and Curtis Granderson had started the season on opposite paths. Lagares was the young, exciting center fielder who was finally hitting enough to make a case to play every day. Granderson was the newly acquired, highly paid veteran who was in a slump. Nevertheless, both served important roles for the Mets. Lagares’s range in center seemed limitless, and the Mets were counting on Granderson to play like his former self. But in the span of two innings Monday night, they exited the Mets’ 7-3 win over the Arizona Diamondbacks. Zack Wheeler pitched well and Lucas Duda had four hits, but the Mets lost two-thirds of their outfield to injury. Lagares pulled his right hamstring in the seventh, and Granderson left in the sixth after he was hurt running into an outfield wall earlier in the game. Granderson grimaced as he put on his socks and shoes after the game. He had sustained a bruised forearm, rib cage, and knee — X-rays on all three areas were negative — and was said to be day-to-day. Lagares could land on the disabled list. The Mets wanted to wait and see how he felt in the morning, before making a decision. “It’s really tough,” Manager Terry Collins said. “He’s played absolutely great. He’s really swung the bat very, very well. He’s earned that right to be out there every day. So to have this happen right now is a tough break for him — a tough break for us.” Advertisement The Mets’ trouble started in the first, when Miguel Montero hit a high fly ball to right. Granderson ranged back and appeared to make the catch, but as he crashed into the wall, the ball popped loose. A run scored as Granderson paced around and shook his left hand in pain. He had broken a bone in the hand last season when he was hit by a pitch, more reason for concern. Granderson remained in the game and had a run-scoring single in the fifth to raise his average to .170. Around then, he said, the soreness set in, and he left the game in the sixth. “You don’t know how he’s going to feel tomorrow, but it’s probably going to be tough swinging for a day or so,” Collins said. Things only got worse an inning later when Lagares pulled his hamstring running to first base on grounder. Lagares, who has a nine-game hitting streak, has been a pleasant surprise for the Mets so far, batting .314, with seven runs batted in, and a .345 on-base percentage. The injuries overshadowed the 20th start for Wheeler, who at 23 is in what should be his first full year in the majors. The Mets have high expectations for Wheeler, especially with Matt Harvey out after shoulder surgery. He was not at his best Monday, needing 97 pitches to get through six and a third innings, but he still held the Diamondbacks to two runs and six hits to go with three strikeouts and three walks. The Mets again were facing a top-of-the-line, right-handed power hitter in Mark Trumbo. In their last series, the Los Angeles Angels’ Mike Trout hit .467 and crushed two home runs against them. Entering Monday, Trumbo, the Diamondbacks’ new slugger, was leading the National League with 6 homers and 18 runs batted in. Against Wheeler, Trumbo went 0 for 3, and was hitless in four at-bats over all. Wheeler’s counterpart, Josh Collmenter, had recently been shuffled back into the rotation and was making his first start since 2012 — and it showed. The Mets had consecutive hits to open the second and the third innings, which produced three runs. Advertisement Collmenter left the game after four innings, but the Mets were not quite done. They had four straight runners reach in the fifth. Daniel Murphy singled. David Wright walked. Granderson singled to score Murphy. And Duda followed with a single, scoring Wright to push their lead to 5-2. They added two more in the eighth on a sacrifice fly by Daniel Murphy and a run-scoring hit from Wright. Duda went 4 for 5, with two R.B.I. and a run scored. Collins said he would probably use Duda in the outfield if Lagares goes on the disabled list. One injury could foil the Mets’ plans at first base, jumble their outfield, cost them their best defender, and disrupt the momentum Lagares had been building. “We’ll see how it feels tomorrow,” Lagares said. Go to Home Page »
Technology   Intel C.F.O. on Growth in Cloud Business. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos CNBC Intel C.F.O. on Growth in Cloud Business Apr. 15, 2014 | 3:17 Stacy J. Smith, Intel’s chief financial officer, noted pockets of growth and stabilization in the PC market in an interview with CNBC about the company’s quarterly earnings report. Related: article: Intel’s Profit Slips, but Investors Are Still Turning Toward Tech’s Staid Stalwarts Show More PlaylistUp Next in CNBC Next →   CNBC3:12 Buffett Defends Coca-Cola Investment   CNBC4:40 Questioning an Antitrust Case   CNBC5:01 Walgreens, Theranos and Bad Blood   CNBC5:02 E.C.B. on Criticism From Germany   CNBC3:39 Ex-Wells Fargo Chief on Banking Sector   CNBC8:52 Hedge Fund on a Shake-Up at Yahoo   CNBC4:27 Biden on Carried Interest Tax   CNBC5:43 Theranos Chief Under Fire   CNBC5:15 S.U.V.s Move Into the Luxury Market   CNBC10:26 Treasury Secretary on Tax Inversions © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Travel   HotelTonight Goes Beyond the Last Minute. Advertisement HotelTonight, the popular mobile application for booking last-minute hotel rooms, is now helping travelers to plan further in advance. Well, a bit. The app’s newest feature, “Look Ahead,” helps users get a picture of what a city’s booking landscape might look like up to a week in advance, noting estimated rates and availability on specific days, as well as highlighting special events like concerts or conventions, that might also affect bookings. But it’s not just about whether an event will mean that a room rate might be higher, Sam Shank, the company’s chief executive, said. Certain events could actually encourage travelers on the fence about a last-minute getaway to take advantage of the situation. “This feature allows people to plan to be spontaneous and makes them more confident in using the app because they don’t need to question whether the app will deliver,” he said. Beginning Tuesday, users will find the Look Ahead feature at the bottom of the screen when searching for rooms in New York, Las Vegas, Los Angeles, Miami, Washington, Chicago, San Francisco, San Diego and Dallas, with more cities to be added in the coming months. To view projected rates, savings and availability, users can choose a specific day of the week, under which icons will denote any music festivals, Comicon conventions, business conferences or other happenings taking place in the city that day. Seasonal or themed promotions being offered by hotels in the area, like spa discounts, drink promotions or package deals around Valentine’s Day or New Year’s, will also be promoted on the app. Estimated room rates are based on historical and predictive booking data, Mr. Shank said, as well as on input from the company’s marketing and data team. “At this point we know enough about the same-day market to be able to show you what bookings might look like over the next few days,” he said. “So that’s what we’re starting to share with users.” And while rates may climb during high-traffic events, there will always be rooms available, he added, the selection of which is monitored by the company based on the quality of the hotel, not the price. Looking any further than a week into the future may be too much for last-minute travelers, however, so for now, seven days ahead is as far as the app will go, Mr. Shank said. The feature is currently available on iPhones and will expand to iPads and Android devices soon. The company, based in San Francisco, recently added Athens, Buenos Aires, Copenhagen, Istanbul, Lisbon, Stockholm and Warsaw to its list of 300 cities and more than 10,000 partner hotels. Another new feature, called Crash Pad, is scheduled to launch within the year and will highlight budget-friendly destinations, like hostels, in Europe. In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
U.S.   In Boston, Hope and Reflection. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos News Clips In Boston, Hope and Reflection Apr. 15, 2014 | 4:05 Officials and survivors of the Boston bombings gathered for a memorial service to commemorate the first anniversary of the attack at the marathon that killed three people and injured hundreds. Related: image: A Year Later, Boston Honors Bombs’ Victims Show More PlaylistUp Next in News Clips Next →   News Clips1:10 Inside Aleppo Hospital Before Attack   News Clips1:01 Sanders Predicts Contested Convention   News Clips1:06 Trump Blasts Cruz for 'Wasting Time'   News Clips4:02 How Will Obama Spend His Retirement?   U.S. & Politics8:22 Best of Obama's Correspondents' Dinner Speech   News Clips: Asia Pacific0:49 Chinese Temple Employs Robot Monk   News Clips: Asia Pacific0:29 U.S. to Heighten Pressure on North Korea   News Clips0:40 Airstrikes Resume in Syria   News Clips0:54 Merkel Welcomes Obama to Germany   Business0:40 Footage of Man in Cake Dispute © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Business   Carefully Consider. Advertisement By Mary Lou Guizzo and Jeff Chen Apr 17, 2014 The New York Times Crossword is available through subscription only. THURSDAY’S PUZZLE — How often do you find your daily crossword puzzle grinning at you? Is that a friendly, “Come solve me” look, or a strange, off-season jack-o’-lantern? Either way, today’s debut by Mary Lou Guizzo, ably mentored by Jeff Chen, is a clever idea. There are four places in their grid where familiar phrases are broken up, but they cross each other, which puts them back together. Not sure what that means? All you have to do is think this through, or rather, THINK THROUGH, if you’ve gotten to the reveals at 45- and 61 Across. If you’ve blown your stack, like 23 Across suggests, you fill in WENT at 23 Across, which goes THROUGH the entry at 13 Down THE (with the ‘N’ in WENT ) ROOF. You WENT (through) THE ROOF. Now do that in the other three places. I had a slow start in the northwest because I had, respectively, GAPE, GAWK and then GAWP at 1 Down until I filled in PROWESS, which struck me as hilariously ironic in crossword PROWESS terms. The intellectual sector of Ms. Guizzo’s and Mr. Chen’s puzzle in the northeast was impressive, with TYCHO Brahe and T.S. ELIOT making appearances. In nontheme news, I liked seeing CHESS GAMES, OUTHOUSES, FAST ONE, SPELUNK and I AM SO DEAD in the grid. Clue(s) of the Day, for me, go to “Heads for the woods?” for OUTHOUSES and “Subway fare?” for HEROS. Let’s meet Ms. Guizzo and hear from Mr. Chen: Mary Lou Guizzo: Gary Cee’s May 29, 2013, puzzle sparked some ideas and I emailed Jeff. He had mentored me for several months by this point and we’d had one other puzzle accepted by The New York Times (which has yet to run!). Jeff had been thinking of a similar type puzzle with “through/thru” phrases. I researched phrases, we batted ideas back and forth on which to use and what the reveal should be. Jeff did the grid design and we worked on the fill and cluing together. I thought it quite appropriate that astronomer TYCHO Brahe ended up in the same corner with PAID through THE NOSE. He lost part of his nose in a duel and wore an artificial one for the rest of his life. If you have some crossword theme ideas and need a mentor, I cannot say enough good things about Jeff — he is very talented, patient, encouraging, prompt in corresponding, a fount of good advice, open to other points of view and a genius at grid design. [Jeff, are you writing your mentees’ notes again? We talked about this. — D.A.] Nancy Salomon also mentored me through several early puzzles and I appreciate her generosity and advice as well. Crossfire software has definitely been an asset as has the xwordinfo.com site developed by Jim Horne and maintained by Jeff and Jim. I am a specialist in blood banking (SBB). My hobbies include photography, reading, bicycling, hiking and swimming. I like a Marcel Proust quote which I thought applicable to photography and puzzling, “The real voyage of discovery consists not in seeking new landscapes, but in having new eyes.” Both hobbies have given me fresh and different perspectives. As Will Shortz has noted, solving and constructing puzzles are two different skills. Constructing has given me a real appreciation for those who create(d) puzzles, especially prior to the days of software and databases, not to mention those who make their living in the crossword world. Jeff Chen: It’s a real pleasure to work with Mary Lou. One aspect I really like about her is that she understands how many theme ideas it takes to yield a single half-decent one. Too often when people approach me with a concept, we find out it’s been done before, or it’s too loosey-goosey, and they don’t continue to brainstorm. Not M.L.! I find it takes at least 10 thoughts to produce one quasi-workable theme, and even then, development of said theme takes time (and may not work out in the end). I’m glad she sticks through the arduous process. This puzzle was a bear to put together, and we went through many iterations. People might say left-right (or “mirror”) symmetry is becoming my shtick, and I do admit to liking the visual appeal. Most often I need to incorporate blocks in the center of the puzzle, which by nature either take on a smile or a frown, and who doesn’t like seeing a nice friendly face right in the middle of their grid? (Don’t answer that.) Theme development alone on this one was very tricky. M.L. came up with a long list of workable phrases, and we wanted to narrow it down to a consistent set of at least four. Even then, the puzzle didn’t feel heavy enough until we came across the idea of adding THINK / THROUGH, a double hint to the themers. And then the grid work. Torturous! Every time you work with crossing answers, you heavily constrain your grid. One set of (fixed) crossing answers is easy-peasy. Two is no bother. Three gets a little tricky. Four … groan. You might think, why do those goofballs need so many black squares up there? You’ll answer you own question if you try to position those four sets of crossing themers within a 15 x 15 grid (and tear your hair out in the process). Then to the bottom section. I wasn’t wild about sectioning the grid in two (the edges of the smile sort of split the grid), but we didn’t have many options for layout in those side regions. Keeping the four themers as separate as possible helped us fill relatively smoothly, so it was a trade-off we were willing to make. We did consider splitting some of the entries like CHESS GAME and OUTHOUSES to get rid of uglies like ETE, ASA, EST (ick!), but it surprisingly turned out to only reduce the ick factor slightly. So we decided to accept a tiny bit more ugly stuff to incorporate those nice I AM SO DEAD type answers. Finally, two notes interesting to me. First, I’m sure there will be people who gripe about DUROC because it’s a word they don’t know. But why not look it up and learn something? There’s a giant swath through the Midwest who would likely argue with you cotton-pickin’ city-slickers (pretty sure that’s what Midwesterners say). Second, check out the “cross” made out of black squares at the top center. Typically I don’t like to do this as it makes the grid feel too “filled-in” with black squares, but in this case, I thought it was a nice echo to the shape of the themers. A fun Thursday TROT. Let’s move on to the Friday puzzle with a mellow tune from British singer Szjerdene called “Think It Through”: Your thoughts? Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. David Kahn puts us through the wringer.Read more… Emily Cox and Henry Rathvon offer us a challenging cryptic crossword puzzle.Read more… A place for solvers to discuss and ask questions about the “A Little Variety” suite of puzzles.Read more… Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   India Election Digest: April 17. Advertisement   What you need to know about India’s election on Thursday: The fifth and biggest round of India’s national elections gets underway, with 121 constituencies across 12 states and union territories going to vote. What’s at stake: 28 seats in Karnataka, followed by Rajasthan (20), Maharashtra (19), Uttar Pradesh and Odisha (11 each), Madhya Pradesh (10), Bihar (seven), Jharkhand (six), West Bengal (four), Chhattisgarh (three), Manipur and the state of Jammu and Kashmir (one each). Here’s an overview of the elections taking place on Thursday. (Times of India) News and analysis on the world’s largest election. Of all the candidates featured in all the elections in the first five phases of the elections, 17 percent are facing criminal charges. (Hindustan Times) Bollywood is split after nearly 60 industry members penned an open letter asking voters to choose “the secular party which is most likely to win in your constituency.” (The Indian Express) Narendra Modi, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s candidate for prime minister, said in an interview with ANI News that he has answered “every top journalist in the country” about the 2002 religious riots that erupted in Gujarat while he was chief minister there but that “there was no exercise to understand truth.” (ANI News) One study says the current government’s political troubles stem not from its inability to handle the economy but in its failure to address the consequences of accelerated economic growth, like increased corruption. (Economic & Political Weekly) The Election Commission asks media organizations to not publish opinion polls that are in fact exit polls, which are prohibited during election season. (The Indian Express) If Mr. Modi becomes the next prime minister, his detractors in the United States, even if a minority in Congress, could be an irritant in United States-Indian relations. (The Indian Express) Maoist rebel leaders are attempting to persuade villagers in Jharkhand State to boycott the elections. (The Hindu) India’s national elections began April 7 and will continue on nine separate dates until May 12, with results expected to be announced on May 16. The vote is the world’s largest, with 814 million eligible voters set to choose 543 members of the lower house of Parliament. The other two seats will be appointed by the president. This election is widely considered to be India’s most consequential since 1977. India Ink will be moving to the World page of The New York Times. Read more… A memorial ceremony at the Imphal War Cemetery in Manipur to honor the soldiers who died during World War II.Read more… The newly elected prime minister reaches out to the public in a blog post about his first 30 days in office.Read more… Newborns whose mothers are unable to breastfeed are given stored breast milk to protect them from potentially life-threatening infection.Read more… In the final stage of a long decline, Hindustan Motors announced in May that it would suspend production of the Ambassador, a car that was once synonymous with style and status.Read more… This report on India from the journalists of The New York Times and a pool of talented writers in India and beyond provides unbiased, authoritative reporting on the country and its place in the world. India Ink also strives to be a virtual meeting point for discussion of this complex, fast-changing democracy – its politics, economy, culture and everyday life. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Movies   Clip: ‘Proxy’. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Video Clip: ‘Proxy’ By IFC Midnight | Apr. 16, 2014 | 1:19 A scene from the film “Proxy,” directed by Zack Parker. Show More PlaylistUp Next in Video Next → Op-Docs: Season 5 9:23 I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked   Video1:08 Hitting all the Right Notes Op-Docs: Season 5 13:33 Manufacturing China’s Future Op-Docs: Season 5 6:05 Fashion vs. Art   Video0:56 Excerpt: ‘The Father’   Video0:33 Excerpt: ‘Exit Strategy’ Op-Docs: Season 5 7:19 A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race   Video1:58 Excerpt: ‘Antlia Pneumatica’   News Clips: Europe1:20 Officials React to Panama Papers   News Clips: Europe3:47 Mossack Fonseca on Data Leak © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Science   An Easier Way to Delay Cutting the Cord Sign Up for the Running Email. Advertisement Doctors in the delivery room are increasingly urged to hold off cutting the umbilical cord of a newborn. Delayed clamping, as it’s called, allows blood to continue flowing from the placenta, improving iron stores in the baby. But the practice has been slow to catch on in part because doctors have also been advised that for it to be most effective, they also must hold the wet, screaming infant at the level of the mother’s vagina for a crucial minute or longer so that gravity will help blood flow. Doctors have long considered the maneuver awkward, and now a new study, published on Wednesday in The Lancet, has found that it is probably unnecessary. Babies who were placed on their mothers’ stomachs before clamping fared just as well as those who were held lower, the researchers found. “They found no difference whether the baby was at abdomen level or on the chest, or the baby was held at the vagina,” said Dr. Tonse Raju, the chief of the pregnancy and perinatology branch at the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, who wrote a comment accompanying the study. “It made no difference in terms of extra blood the baby got.”  The authors hope their finding will convince doctors reluctant to delay cord clamping to start the practice. “A mother would prefer to have the baby on top of her,” Dr. Néstor Vain, the lead author and a professor of pediatrics at the University of Buenos Aires in Argentina. “And that doesn’t change the amount of placental transfusion, and facilitates the procedure for the obstetrician.” The study assigned 194 healthy full-term babies to be placed on their mother’s abdomen or chest for two minutes and 197 babies to be held at the level of the vagina for two minutes. All of the newborns were still attached to umbilical cords, and weighed before and after the allotted time. The group placed on their mothers’ abdomens gained 53 grams of blood, while the babies held lower gained 56 grams. Delayed clamping of the cord remains underused despite mounting evidence that it helps reduce iron deficiency in babies and poses no added risk of maternal blood loss. (A recent analysis did find roughly 2 percent more babies whose cord clamping was delayed had to be treated for jaundice.) One reason the practice hasn’t been more widely adopted could be simply that holding a bloody, squirming newborn is cumbersome, said Dr. Raju. A minute or two in this position, he said, can feel like “an eternity” with an exhausted mother looking on. Obstetricians also increasingly recognize the benefits of early skin-to-skin contact, said Dr. Jeffrey Ecker, the chairman of the committee on obstetric practice of the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists. Immediate contact helps the baby stay warm, promotes maternal-infant bonding and may even improve breast-feeding. The new study suggests no trade-off is necessary. “You can delay cord clamping and do skin-to-skin contact, and it’s not going to affect the volume of blood that is added to a baby’s circulation,” said Dr. Ecker, who was not involved in the study. Premature babies and newborns who needed resuscitation or were delivered via cesarean section were excluded from the study. Research still is needed into blood flow in the umbilical cord in these infants. Diane Farrar, an author of a review of alternative positions before cord clamping, said some cesarean births may be different for two reasons. “You cut through the uterus, and the uterus doesn’t contract as well, so the effect on placental transfusion may be different, may be less,” said Dr. Farrar, a senior research fellow at the Bradford Institute for Health Research in England. Also, after a C-section the surgeon will sometimes hold the baby up. “If the cord is still intact,” she said, “that’s a long way up for baby to go, and there’s a potential for blood to drain from the baby to the placenta if you do that.” Your health questions answered by Times journalists and experts. Your Questions | All » Get Well's Running email for practical tips, expert advice, exclusive content and a bit of motivation delivered to your inbox every week to help you on your running journey. Coming soon. How much do you know about the amazing things that go on in your gut? Take our quiz to find out about the creepy, crawly critters living in your home. What surface is the most friendly to the flu virus? Where’s the best place to stand when you’re talking to a sick person? How does sleep affect health, relationships and well-being? The “Reading the Mind in the Eyes Test” measures ability to understand others’ emotional states. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   New Faces and New Location for Indian Premier League. Advertisement Advertisement By HUW RICHARDSAPRIL 15, 2014 The nine franchises are the same as last year, but there will be plenty different about cricket’s most lucrative competition when the Indian Premier League starts its seventh season Wednesday. Because of India’s general election, the opening rounds of competition will be played outside the subcontinent. The opener matches the defending champions, the Mumbai Indians, against the 2012 victors, the Kolkata Knight Riders, in Abu Dhabi, with 19 more matches following in the United Arab Emirates. It is not the first time the I.P.L. has been forced to migrate. The entire 2009 tournament, which also coincided with a general election, was played in South Africa. This year’s competition will return to India early in May for the final 36 regular season matches and then the playoffs. The split schedule poses its own challenge. The extreme heat and slow fields in the Gulf are likely to favor teams that have strong spin bowling, giving them a chance to get off to a flying start. On the economic side, it also will add pressure to teams feeling the sting after allegations of fixing in last year’s tournament. Once eager to be associated with the I.P.L., sponsors are shying away from it. “Almost 30 to 40 percent of the inventory remains unsold as far as all franchises are concerned,” RS Suriyanarayan, an associate vice president of Initiative Media, told the Indian Express newspaper this week about the dearth of sponsorship deals. “Till last year we saw sponsors finalizing deals almost a month before the tourney. Now it is wait and watch game.” Advertisement Mohit Burman, co-owner of Kings XI Punjab, told Indian Express that only two of 15 sponsors renewed this year. For players and coaches, it is a relief to talk about cricket once again, instead of off-the-field concerns. “It’s nice to get back into a team environment, where you’re somewhat cocooned,” said Steven Fleming, coach of the Chennai Super Kings. “There’s a lot going on. I won’t lie.” No team has been more hit by scandal than the Super Kings, the most successful franchise after making the finals five times in six seasons, winning twice. It has been less than a month since the team fought off a proposal by India’s Supreme Court to shut the club down following the indictment of a former senior team official, Gurunath Meiyappan, on spot-fixing charges. Yet for the world’s leading players, the I.P.L. remains an unmatched source of riches. While the league holds a rotisserie-style player auction each year, it is reshaped every three by a big sale in which almost every player is up for grabs. Among the big winners from that triennial sale earlier this year was Kevin Pietersen, whose dismissal from the English national team means he is free to play the entire tournament for the first time. Signed by Delhi Daredevils, he can look forward to earning $1.5 million for each of the next three I.P.L. seasons. But there were also losers. Subramaniam Badrinath, previously a Chennai stalwart, went unclaimed in the auction, and he told The Hindu newspaper that it was “a blow to my chest. I really don’t know how to react.” The auction took place before the recent World Twenty20 tournament, so Mumbai may now feel it got a bargain signing the West Indian left-armer Krishmar Santokie for a mere $50,000, while Royal Challengers Bangalore may worry about its decision to devote a huge chunk of its budget — $2.25 million a year — to the charismatic Indian all-rounder Yuvraj Singh. Advertisement Bangalore undoubtedly has star power to burn. It can field Yuvraj alongside Chris Gayle, the I.P.L.’s most consistently devastating batsman; the brilliant South African AB de Villiers; and its captain Virat Kohli, who was the most valuable player in the World Twenty20 tournament. But in devoting so much of its budget to those four giants, Bangalore risks being short on depth, particularly in its bowling. After so many changes, it may be the franchises that retained their core players that do the best. Troubled off the field, Chennai continues to look strong on it. It held on to a core group of Indian players built around captain MS Dhoni and added a bargain in the West Indian spinner Samuel Badree, currently ranked the best bowler in International Twenty20, along with the power hitting Brendon McCullum of New Zealand and Dwayne Smith of the West Indies. “These are some pretty powerful additions to the side. Some new tools to play around with during the season,” said Fleming. Chennai will be hard to stop, but if anyone can do it, it could be the Rajasthan Royals, a smart franchise that has also retained last season’s core and consistently adds up to be more than the sum of its modest parts. A version of this article appears in print on April 16, 2014, in The International New York Times. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Travel   A Scottish Trail Will Celebrate John Muir. Advertisement To celebrate the spirit, work and legacy of the  conservationist John Muir, Scotland will officially unveil the John Muir Way on April 21. The 134-mile marked trail starts at his birthplace in Dunbar and concludes at Helensburgh, where he embarked on his journey to the United States. Flanked by gleaming lakes and hills, the trail features well-known landmarks including Arthur’s Seat in Edinburgh; the Trossachs (Scotland’s first national park); and Muir’s Birthplace Museum. The trail takes roughly 12 days to walk and a few days to bike, but it can be done in shorter sections. Several historic castles lie en route as does Antonine’s Wall, a stone and turf fortification built by the Romans in A.D. 142 in the Central Belt of Scotland, and now a World Heritage site. Two newly constructed horse-head figures — the Kelpies, the largest equine sculptures in the world — can be viewed at Falkirk. Created by the artist Andy Scott, the 100-foot, 300-ton sculptures are a tribute to Celtic mythology and inspired by Scotland’s history of working Clydesdale horses. “Muir changed the way people thought about protecting nature,” said Michael McCuish, international public relations executive for VisitScotland. “The John Muir Way is composed of a lot of little trails that form a continuous walkway: It is the same bicoastal journey he took as a child.” In the United States, Muir founded the Sierra Club and became an energetic champion of national parks. The trail is part of Visit Scotland’s Year of Homecoming celebrations; 2014 marks the centennial of Muir’s death. The John Muir Way Festival, filled with events along the trail through April 26, acts as a prelude to the official opening. A version of this article appears in print on 04/27/2014, on page TR3 of the SundayAdvance edition with the headline: Hiking: Honoring a Conservationist. In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
U.S.   Boston Police on Suspicious Backpacks. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Video Boston Police on Suspicious Backpacks Apr. 17, 2014 | 0:53 The Boston police superintendent for the night command said that a man was arrested and charged after two backpacks were found near the marathon finish line. Related: article: Boston Police to Bolster Presence Before Marathon Show More PlaylistUp Next in Video Next → Op-Docs: Season 5 9:23 I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked   Video1:08 Hitting all the Right Notes Op-Docs: Season 5 13:33 Manufacturing China’s Future Op-Docs: Season 5 6:05 Fashion vs. Art   Video0:56 Excerpt: ‘The Father’   Video0:33 Excerpt: ‘Exit Strategy’ Op-Docs: Season 5 7:19 A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race   Video1:58 Excerpt: ‘Antlia Pneumatica’   News Clips: Europe1:20 Officials React to Panama Papers   News Clips: Europe3:47 Mossack Fonseca on Data Leak © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Arts   This Weekend: Indie Films and Ai Weiwei. Channels & Shows Home Search Culture Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Culture This Weekend: Indie Films and Ai Weiwei By Christian Roman | Apr. 17, 2014 | 1:35 Things to do this weekend include the Tribeca Film Festival, which is in full swing in lower Manhattan. There’s also a new Ai Weiwei exhibition in Brooklyn, and Olga Peretyatko makes her Met debut. Show More PlaylistUp Next in Culture Next → This Week’s Movies Culture3:28 This Week’s Movies | May 6, 2016   U.S.0:22 Obama, Dancing With the Star (Wars)   Opinion6:58 Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics   Fashion1:13 Red Carpet Arrivals at the Met Ball   Culture3:07 Tony Nominations Are Announced This Week’s Movies Culture3:28 This Week’s Movies | April 29, 2016 Anatomy of a Scene Culture2:41 Anatomy | ‘The Man Who Knew Infinity’   Europe0:29 Big Ben to Be Silenced   Food1:12 Tomatillo Pineapple Salsa | Taste Makers   Taste Makers6:01 Nigerian Food, Crash-and-Burn Style | Taste Makers © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Books   García Márquez, Magical Realism Master. Channels & Shows Home Search Culture Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Culture García Márquez, Magical Realism Master By Sofia Perpetua | Apr. 18, 2014 | 2:27 Gabriel García Márquez, the Nobel laureate Colombian author whose “One Hundred Years of Solitude” established him as a giant of 20th-century literature, died on Thursday at his home in Mexico City. Related: article: Gabriel García Márquez, Conjurer of Literary Magic, Dies at 87 Show More PlaylistUp Next in Culture Next → This Week’s Movies Culture3:28 This Week’s Movies | May 6, 2016   U.S.0:22 Obama, Dancing With the Star (Wars)   Opinion6:58 Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics   Fashion1:13 Red Carpet Arrivals at the Met Ball   Culture3:07 Tony Nominations Are Announced This Week’s Movies Culture3:28 This Week’s Movies | April 29, 2016 Anatomy of a Scene Culture2:41 Anatomy | ‘The Man Who Knew Infinity’   Europe0:29 Big Ben to Be Silenced   Food1:12 Tomatillo Pineapple Salsa | Taste Makers   Taste Makers6:01 Nigerian Food, Crash-and-Burn Style | Taste Makers © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Business   Learn to Teach. Advertisement By James Mulhern Apr 18, 2014 The New York Times Crossword is available through subscription only. FRIDAY’S PUZZLE — I just barely got a toehold in James Mulhern’s puzzle today. The clues seemed unusually cryptic for my money (not cryptic crossword style, just out of my reach). That’s not a bad thing. Most solvers like to wrap their brains around some difficult cluing and new, crunchy words, and this puzzle delivers. Look at those long Downs! SHARING IS CARING! NOT MUCH TO LOOK AT! Those are awesome. I would give those a STANDING O. FO’ SHIZZLE makes its debut today, even though, technically speaking, it is so last decade, but it also give us ZAIRE and ZENITH. I also love the word ATHENAEUM, which is, in fact, a reading room, but is one of those words with which I have an olfactory association: I associate it with big, beautiful public libraries, which smell to me of old wood and the paper on which the books are printed. I needed every crossing to get BAMAKO, the largest city and capital of Mali. I was happy to see ALAN ARKIN, although I had to look him up to discover that he was in “The Pentagon Papers” back in 2003. For me, he will always be Sheldon Kornpett from “The IN-LAWs” to me. But you know what I liked the most? The Shakespearean quote “Add THERETO a tiger’s chaudron/For the ingredients of our cauldron” has an interesting bit of etymological evolution in it. An obsolete definition of the word “chaudron” is entrails, which would be an appropriate thing to throw into your evil mixture if you are one of Macbeth’s witches, but it has evolved over time to mean “cauldron” itself. Clue of the Day for me was “Learn to teach?” for ANTONYM. Let’s hear from Mr. Mulhern: This puzzle began, as so many themes do, in the northwest, where a stroke of luck and some sage advice allowed me to extend 3-Down from SHARING to the awesome SHARING IS CARING. Unfortunately, from there the grid was already fairly constrained, and the compromises required to fill it are a bit too evident. There’s definitely some other good stuff throughout the puzzle (I really like NOT MUCH TO LOOK AT, despite another “AT” dupe …), but there’s also too much junk. The eternal constructing struggle! In any case, I’m pleased with this puzzle, and I hope you are, too. Fo’shizzle. Our friend Patrick Merrell has a new book out that would make a great gift for the elementary or middle school child in your life. “Hunting For Heroes,” which also has the title “iFlush” because it’s published by the infamous “Uncle John’s” series, is a beautiful book jam-packed with puzzles galore. The lucky recipient of this book will stay busy for hours learning about heroes, big and small. Your thoughts? Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. David Kahn puts us through the wringer.Read more… Emily Cox and Henry Rathvon offer us a challenging cryptic crossword puzzle.Read more… A place for solvers to discuss and ask questions about the “A Little Variety” suite of puzzles.Read more… Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   Image of the Day: April 17. Advertisement   India’s national elections began April 7 and will continue on nine separate dates until May 12, with results expected to be announced on May 16. The vote is the world’s largest, with 814 million eligible voters set to choose 543 members of the lower house of Parliament. The other two seats will be appointed by the president. This election is widely considered to be India’s most consequential since 1977. India Ink will be moving to the World page of The New York Times. Read more… A memorial ceremony at the Imphal War Cemetery in Manipur to honor the soldiers who died during World War II.Read more… The newly elected prime minister reaches out to the public in a blog post about his first 30 days in office.Read more… Newborns whose mothers are unable to breastfeed are given stored breast milk to protect them from potentially life-threatening infection.Read more… In the final stage of a long decline, Hindustan Motors announced in May that it would suspend production of the Ambassador, a car that was once synonymous with style and status.Read more… This report on India from the journalists of The New York Times and a pool of talented writers in India and beyond provides unbiased, authoritative reporting on the country and its place in the world. India Ink also strives to be a virtual meeting point for discussion of this complex, fast-changing democracy – its politics, economy, culture and everyday life. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Home   Dutch Design, Up for Bid. Advertisement Advertisement By EVE M. KAHNAPRIL 16, 2014 The Cosmopolitan of Las Vegas, a glass slab of casino halls and 3,000 hotel rooms, once had an avant-garde attraction as well: a street-level showroom devoted to the Dutch design company Droog, whose signature witticisms (dresser drawers roped together, rags stacked to form chairs, milk bottles clustered into chandeliers) were shown on a translucent white floor. The store lasted just a year, and now the resort is selling the inventory. On April 23, three dozen Droog pieces will be offered at Heritage Auctions in Dallas. Renny Ramakers, a Droog founder, said she had been surprised to learn about the sale and had never seen so many of the company’s works up for auction before. Estimates start at a few hundred dollars. The string and metal table by Nacho Carbonell is expected to bring up to $5,000; the black cabinet by Chung-Tang Ho, top right, up to $8,000; and the flocked wood display case by Studio Makkink & Bey, left, up to $6,000. Information: 800-872-6467 or ha.com. A version of this article appears in print on April 17, 2014, on page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: Events Dutch Design, Up for Bid. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Movies   This Week’s Movies. Channels & Shows Home Search Culture Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos The ultimate film lover’s guide: The Times critics A.O. Scott, Manohla Dargis and Stephen Holden offer their picks for the week’s best movies, from blockbusters to hidden gems. Recent Episodes in This Week’s Movies This Week’s Movies Culture 3:14 This Week’s Movies | April 8, 2016 This Week’s Movies Culture 3:34 This Week’s Movies | April 1, 2016 This Week’s Movies Culture 3:20 This Week’s Movies | March 25, 2016 This Week’s Movies Culture 3:33 This Week’s Movies: March 18, 2016 This Week’s Movies Culture 3:07 This Week’s Movies | March 11, 2016 This Week’s Movies Culture 3:03 This Week’s Movies | March 4, 2016 This Week’s Movies Culture 3:15 This Week’s Movies | Feb. 26, 2016 This Week’s Movies Culture 3:19 This Week’s Movies | Feb. 19, 2016 This Week’s Movies Culture 3:11 This Week’s Movies | Feb. 12, 2016 Show more videos from This Week’s Movies Most Popular 1 Food Coconut Cluster Granola 2 U.S. Best of Obama's Correspondents' Dinner Speech 3 Opinion Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics 4 U.S. Obama Delivers Howard’s Commencement 5 Fashion & Style Bill Cunningham | Garden Party 6 U.S. Copwatch vs. Cops: After Freddie Gray 7 World The Killing of Farkhunda 8 U.S. Welfare and the Politics of Poverty 9 Multimedia/Photos Illustrated Interview | Buzz Aldrin 10 Movies This Week’s Movies | May 6, 2016 © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Science   An Athlete Tackles Cancer Sign Up for the Running Email. Advertisement “It’s not a sprint, it’s a marathon.” I heard those words often during my years as a soccer player at Drexel University. The mantra reminded me of my goals, and helped me endure the pain of practice and the mental stress of competition. Now at the age of 30, I find myself relying on that mantra again — not as an athlete, but as a patient. Last September, doctors told me that I had Stage IV gastric cancer. With my sports background, I have come to view treatment as a competition. “Remembering that “it’s not a sprint, it’s a marathon” now helps me endure the pain of treatment and the mental strain of the unknown. Just as I did in soccer, I have set my mind on victory. My youth was all sports – years of waking early and piling into a crammed minivan to get to this or that game. Whether running point guard on a hard basketball court, stealing bases or playing the world’s most beautiful game on fresh green grass, I never knew that one day I would rely on my training to face my fiercest opponent ever. Now, my “game day” is treatment day. As in soccer, I spend the weeks before treatment drawing up a game plan. I’ve learned that by following a pretreatment training regimen, I can recover much more quickly. Of course, I can train only on “good days” – the days when I’m not clutching the toilet or shivering even while wrapped in thick clothing. But the reality that not every day is a good day just steels my resolve to make the most of those times. On good days, I push myself to get to 25 push-ups, followed by squats and as many squat thrusts as my quivering legs can handle. I often end up gasping for air. I also run steps when I can, breathing deeply and feeling the cold air burning through my lungs. After these sessions, I rest, hydrate and mentally prepare for the looming treatment. I can still vividly see my old self in the locker room with my teammates, my soccer uniform drenched in sweat. Nowadays, of course, I am without my teammates. I am wearing tights to keep my legs warm and sitting in my room wrapped in blankets. To psych myself for treatment, I speak to a thinner, bald person in the mirror I often don’t recognize. But as I do I can see my former self surrounded by my teammates as we get ready for battle. Both then and now, I remind myself that no matter the pain, the victory will be worth it. As game day inches nearer, I focus on yoga and meditation. Deep breathing calms my mind, as does envisioning waves crashing as I lie on a warm, sunny beach. I also imagine a finish line, as if I am running the 100-meter dash. I picture myself crossing that line, snapping the ribbon of victory, and celebrating with exuberance. I pictured these scenes in my mind as a young athlete; I do it now for a very different kind of race. In sports, a “three a day” means three practice sessions in one day – an extreme effort. During the hardest days of post-treatment, I reflect on how grueling those sessions were, how much I demanded of myself. Sometimes I would fall exhausted to the ground after wind sprints, but I would always pick myself back up. Merely remembering this, remembering that I had tested my body and mind before, and prevailed, gives me strength to endure. I can pick myself up again. I also think about my knee surgery in my junior year. Chemotherapy is torturous, but it fortifies me to recall how much pain I was in after tearing the meniscus and medial collateral ligament in my knee, and how hard I worked to recuperate. I have done it before, I tell myself. When I enter the confines of the treatment room – my field of competition — I sit in the recliner with the toxic chemicals running into the port in my chest. I recall a soccer tournament I was in as a teenager. We were playing in Sweden against the top seed, Brazil, and we were losing. I assembled my teammates at halftime, urged them to reach deep down, to go the distance, to finish strong and to show what we were made of. “We’ve had uphill battles before and won,” I remember telling them. “We got this!” We faced long odds in that match, but my team fought hard. In the last minute, I scored the winning goal. It’s a happy memory for me; one of my best. I try to summon the courage I felt back then. “I’ve had uphill battles before and won,” I whisper to myself. “We got this!” Alex Niles is a 30-year-old writer who lives in New York City. Follow him on Twitter (@AlxNiles) and Facebook, or on his blog www.SmilesForNiles.com.  Your health questions answered by Times journalists and experts. Your Questions | All » Get Well's Running email for practical tips, expert advice, exclusive content and a bit of motivation delivered to your inbox every week to help you on your running journey. Coming soon. How much do you know about the amazing things that go on in your gut? Take our quiz to find out about the creepy, crawly critters living in your home. What surface is the most friendly to the flu virus? Where’s the best place to stand when you’re talking to a sick person? How does sleep affect health, relationships and well-being? The “Reading the Mind in the Eyes Test” measures ability to understand others’ emotional states. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   Nets Get 6th Seed and Will Face Raptors. Advertisement Advertisement By ANDREW KEHAPRIL 17, 2014 Dwane Casey, the Toronto Raptors’ coach, laughed off the notion Wednesday afternoon that any Eastern Conference teams might have conspired during the final days of the regular season to establish more favorable playoff positions. There were too many variables and possible outcomes, particularly among the conference’s No. 3 to No. 6 seeds, he said. “I think you let the basketball gods decide,” Casey said. Hours later, the matchups were crystallized. The Nets, who were blown out, 114-85, by the Cleveland Cavaliers while resting several players in their final regular-season game, dropped to the No. 6 seed, while the Washington Wizards leapfrogged into fifth place. The Raptors were still playing the Knicks as they were locked into the third seed when the Charlotte Bobcats beat the Chicago Bulls, who settled at No. 4.  The top-seeded Indiana Pacers will play the Atlanta Hawks, and the Miami Heat, the No. 2 seed, will face the Bobcats. After losing to the Knicks, 95-92, the Raptors looked ahead to the Nets. The teams split their four meetings this season; three were close, hard-fought games. “We know we can beat them,” DeMar DeRozan said. “We beat them twice this year.”   The abridged narrative entering the series is of a battle-worn Nets squad squaring off against a sprightly, young Raptors team. Toronto is making its first playoff appearance since 2008. DeRozan said the Raptors would succeed by trying “to put the speed on them a little bit.” “We understand they’re experienced and everything, but hey, who isn’t?” he said. “Once you come in this league, you’re going against players all season that’s experienced in some type of way. You’ve just got to figure out how to win.” Casey said the Raptors could not afford to be as careless with the ball as they were against the Knicks, turning it over 25 times. “The key is meeting their physicality,” Casey said of the Nets. “They’re a very veteran team. They know how to play. They’re a possession team.” Advertisement Before the postseason picture was finalized, Casey said his staff had finished most of its video scouting and preparation work for all of Toronto’s potential opponents, a process that began over a week ago. “It’s very tedious, hard work, with the understanding that you really don’t know who you’re going to play,” he said. “But it’s got to be done.” With the initial work done, his team will ready to face the Nets on Saturday night at Air Canada Centre. He seemed eager to get the ball rolling. “It is basketball,” Casey said. “It’s not rocket science.”  In the Western Conference, the seventh-seeded Grizzles will play the Thunder, the Mavericks will face the Spurs, the Clippers will face the Warriors and the Rockets will meet the Trail Blazers. A version of this article appears in print on April 17, 2014, on page B16 of the New York edition with the headline: Nets Get 6th Seed and Will Face Raptors. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Travel   A Geneva Hotel Thinks Younger. Advertisement Some travelers will go to any length for the type of rest and relaxation that makes them feel 10 years younger. But for those with limited time to do so, a new program from La Réserve Genève Hotel and Spa in Switzerland promises a rejuvenating experience in seven days or less. La Réserve, which describes itself as a “cleverly concealed reserve of happiness” on Lake Geneva, is now offering a new spa program developed and supervised by Nescens, a company that specializes in anti-aging products and programs, designed with the help of specialists at Genolier, one of Switzerland’s largest networks of medical clinics. The four- or seven-day programs begin with a full medical assessment, including a blood test and other queries into diet, lifestyle and exercise. The result is a custom treatment program for each guest, created and supervised by a Nescens team, including osteopaths, dieticians, doctors to advise on anti-aging medications, and fitness and lifestyle coaches. Next comes the best part: the actual treatments, which can include massages, body contouring (a massage performed by an osteopath that focuses on knees, ankles and shoulders), therapeutic baths, wraps, scrubs and three organic meals a day. Most treatments take place in the spa’s 22,000-square-foot facility and are available to locals and hotel guests at a price of 3,200 Swiss francs  (about $3,750) for the four-day program and 4,900 francs ($5,740) for seven days, not including accommodations. Average room rates at the hotel start at 445 francs ($520), double occupancy. Extra days can be added for those who might want to try to erase a bit more of their past. In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
U.S.   Chelsea Clinton Announces Her Pregnancy. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos News Clips Chelsea Clinton Announces Her Pregnancy Apr. 17, 2014 | 1:00 Ms. Clinton said that she and her husband were expecting their first child this year. Related: article: Chelsea Clinton Says She Is Expecting Show More PlaylistUp Next in News Clips Next →   News Clips1:10 Inside Aleppo Hospital Before Attack   News Clips1:01 Sanders Predicts Contested Convention   News Clips1:06 Trump Blasts Cruz for 'Wasting Time'   News Clips4:02 How Will Obama Spend His Retirement?   U.S. & Politics8:22 Best of Obama's Correspondents' Dinner Speech   News Clips: Asia Pacific0:49 Chinese Temple Employs Robot Monk   News Clips: Asia Pacific0:29 U.S. to Heighten Pressure on North Korea   News Clips0:40 Airstrikes Resume in Syria   News Clips0:54 Merkel Welcomes Obama to Germany   Business0:40 Footage of Man in Cake Dispute © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Arts   Awesome Con Fans Try to Break Record. Channels & Shows Home Search Culture Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Culture Awesome Con Fans Try to Break Record By A.J. Chavar and Quynhanh Do | Apr. 19, 2014 | 1:10 As part of the convention kickoff in Washington, attendees tried to break the world record for the largest gathering of people dressed as comic book characters but fell short of the record, 1,530. Show More PlaylistUp Next in Culture Next → This Week’s Movies Culture3:28 This Week’s Movies | May 6, 2016   U.S.0:22 Obama, Dancing With the Star (Wars)   Opinion6:58 Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics   Fashion1:13 Red Carpet Arrivals at the Met Ball   Culture3:07 Tony Nominations Are Announced This Week’s Movies Culture3:28 This Week’s Movies | April 29, 2016 Anatomy of a Scene Culture2:41 Anatomy | ‘The Man Who Knew Infinity’   Europe0:29 Big Ben to Be Silenced   Food1:12 Tomatillo Pineapple Salsa | Taste Makers   Taste Makers6:01 Nigerian Food, Crash-and-Burn Style | Taste Makers © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Business   Putting One’s Cards on the Table. Advertisement By Stu Ockman Apr 19, 2014 The New York Times Crossword is available through subscription only. SATURDAY’S PUZZLE — The last time we saw Stu Ockman over a year ago, he was calling out to us, but this time he has seen fit to twist our brains with a difficult Saturday puzzle. I only had trouble in the northern portion of his grid, and the middle, and I guess the southern portion wasn’t so easy either. There were precious few gimmes in Mr. Ockman’s puzzle (let’s just say that it’s a good thing I still know how to count DWARFs). In some cases, I will freely admit that I probably psyched myself out and thought, “This entry can’t be that easy. That Harry Potter clue can’t just be THE GOBLET OF FIRE; it must be one of the supplementary books, just to make it extra hard!” And that, my friends, is how you mess up a crossword puzzle. I just wasn’t on Mr. Ockman’s and Will Shortz’s wavelength for this one. In the category of Things Deb Didn’t Know was LATAKIA, LOTHAIR, Regina RESNIK, CAS (I speak only passable French, but had never heard the word CAS used in the context of a problem. In Babylon Translate, it’s defined as an “event” or a “circumstance”), and S.N.C.C. So I worked my way through the tough stuff, once in a while enjoying the small victories — I finally remembered MIA SARA’s name after getting most of the letters via the crossings — and marveled at the deadly trickiness of the clues. “___ York” probably brings to mind NEW, but, this being Saturday, there is no hint whatsoever that what Mr. Ockman and Mr. Shortz are looking for is the Spanish NUEVA. Of the 15-letter entries, I liked seeing THE GOBLET OF FIRE, CLEAN AS A WHISTLE and IT TAKES ALL SORTS. Clue of the Day goes to “Rocks on the Rhein?” for EIS, which is kindly translated for us at 42 Across as ICE. One nit: Other than some shorter fill I’d prefer not to see (AT A, IN OR, RET), I’ve never heard of someone referring to the lens of a telescope as an EYE LENS. It’s legit, but probably belongs in the Department of Redundancy Department. What else are you going to use to look through a lens? Let’s chat with Mr. Ockman: The most difficult thing for me, as a constructor, is getting in synch with my editor. Fortunately, Will is very patient and understanding when we’re collaborating on a grid. And, that’s a good thing because I still have a lot to learn. Themeless puzzles are a great way to perfect one’s constructing skills. The vocabulary has to be both exciting and fresh. The grid can’t exceed 72 words (today’s puzzle is 68) v. 78 words for a themed grid. And, the smaller number of words means that it’s harder to find alternative fill if Will finds a puzzle-killer. This last point is particularly true when the grid has a couple of triple-stacks in it. This was my 13th attempt at a themeless; and like the first dozen, it was summarily rejected. However, Will left me with a glimmer of hope, calling it “a near-miss.” With that little encouragement, I guessed that the top stack was better than the bottom stack [originally SELL A PIG IN A POKE, TRAINING CENTRES (Sites for British recruits), and SARDINES ON TOAST]. And, the rest is history. Hope you enjoyed it. HAL 9000 was the first time in film that suggested that our computers might eventually turn against us, and this was one of the scariest scenes I can remember watching when I was a kid. Let’s open the pod bay doors and move on to the Variety puzzle: Your thoughts? Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. David Kahn puts us through the wringer.Read more… Emily Cox and Henry Rathvon offer us a challenging cryptic crossword puzzle.Read more… A place for solvers to discuss and ask questions about the “A Little Variety” suite of puzzles.Read more… Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Food   Pasta With Garlicky Bread Crumbs. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Spring Recipes: Melissa Clark Pasta With Garlicky Bread Crumbs By Jenny Woodward | Apr. 18, 2014 | 3:26 Melissa Clark makes pasta with toasted garlicky bread crumbs, anchovies and fresh parsley. Related: article: Left With the Crumbs? Lucky You Show More PlaylistUp Next in Spring Recipes: Melissa Clark ← Previous Melissa Clark Food1:51 Green Garlic Tabbouleh Melissa Clark Food1:44 Salmon With Anchovy Butter   Spring Recipes: Melissa Clark2:38 Shaved Vegetable Salad   Spring Recipes: Melissa Clark2:28 Braised Brisket   Spring Recipes: Melissa Clark3:44 Grilled Skirt Steak With Herbs   Spring Recipes: Melissa Clark3:22 Asparagus Soup With Ricotta Crostini   Spring Recipes: Melissa Clark3:17 Pea Salad With Creamy Cheese   Spring Recipes: Melissa Clark2:39 Scallops With Sorrel Butter   Spring Recipes: Melissa Clark2:46 Steamed Clams With Spring Herbs   Now Playing Spring Recipes: Melissa Clark3:26 Pasta With Garlicky Bread Crumbs   Spring Recipes: Melissa Clark3:11 Quinoa Salad for a Crowd   Spring Recipes: Melissa Clark3:04 Chocolate Caramel Macarons © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Foreign   Image of the Day: April 18. Advertisement   India’s national elections began April 7 and will continue on nine separate dates until May 12, with results expected to be announced on May 16. The vote is the world’s largest, with 814 million eligible voters set to choose 543 members of the lower house of Parliament. The other two seats will be appointed by the president. This election is widely considered to be India’s most consequential since 1977. India Ink will be moving to the World page of The New York Times. Read more… A memorial ceremony at the Imphal War Cemetery in Manipur to honor the soldiers who died during World War II.Read more… The newly elected prime minister reaches out to the public in a blog post about his first 30 days in office.Read more… Newborns whose mothers are unable to breastfeed are given stored breast milk to protect them from potentially life-threatening infection.Read more… In the final stage of a long decline, Hindustan Motors announced in May that it would suspend production of the Ambassador, a car that was once synonymous with style and status.Read more… This report on India from the journalists of The New York Times and a pool of talented writers in India and beyond provides unbiased, authoritative reporting on the country and its place in the world. India Ink also strives to be a virtual meeting point for discussion of this complex, fast-changing democracy – its politics, economy, culture and everyday life. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Health   The Weekly Health Quiz. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content The New York Times Health|The Weekly Health Quiz Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go http://nyti.ms/RvlxB1 Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Health The Weekly Health Quiz In the news: a new Passover food, painkillers during pregnancy and exercise cool-downs. Test your knowledge of this week’s health news. APRIL 18, 2014 Toby Bilanow/The New York Times Related Multimedia The Weekly Health Quiz APRIL 10, 2014 Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Movies   Movie Review: ‘Transcendence’. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Video Movie Review: ‘Transcendence’ By Robin Lindsay | Apr. 18, 2014 | 1:02 The Times critic Manohla Dargis reviews “Transcendence.” Related: article: I Am My Own Monster (Technology Rules!) Show More PlaylistUp Next in Video Next → Op-Docs: Season 5 9:23 I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked   Video1:08 Hitting all the Right Notes Op-Docs: Season 5 13:33 Manufacturing China’s Future Op-Docs: Season 5 6:05 Fashion vs. Art   Video0:56 Excerpt: ‘The Father’   Video0:33 Excerpt: ‘Exit Strategy’ Op-Docs: Season 5 7:19 A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race   Video1:58 Excerpt: ‘Antlia Pneumatica’   News Clips: Europe1:20 Officials React to Panama Papers   News Clips: Europe3:47 Mossack Fonseca on Data Leak © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Science   The Trouble With Rice Sign Up for the Running Email. Advertisement Deborah Blum writes about chemicals and the environment. For the past few years, Mary Lou Guerinot has been keeping watch over experimental fields in southeast Texas, monitoring rice plants as they suck metals and other troublesome elements from the soil. If the fields are flooded in the traditional paddy method, she has found, the rice handily takes up arsenic. But if the water is reduced in an effort to limit arsenic, the plant instead absorbs cadmium — also a dangerous element. “It’s almost either-or, day-and-night as to whether we see arsenic or cadmium in the rice,” said Dr. Guerinot, a molecular geneticist and professor of biology at Dartmouth College. The levels of arsenic and cadmium at the study site are not high enough to provoke alarm, she emphasized. Still, it is dawning on scientists like her that rice, one of the most widely consumed foods in the world, is also one of nature’s great scavengers of metallic compounds. Consumers have already become alarmed over reports of rice-borne arsenic in everything from cereal bars to baby food. Some food manufacturers have stepped up screening for arsenic in their products, and agencies such as the Food and Drug Administration now recommend that people eat a variety of grains to “minimize potential adverse health consequences from eating an excess of any one food.” But it’s not just arsenic and cadmium, which are present in soil both as naturally occurring elements and as industrial byproducts. Recent studies have shown that rice is custom-built to pull a number of metals from the soil, among them mercury and even tungsten. The findings have led to a new push by scientists and growers to make the grain less susceptible to metal contamination. The highest levels often occur in brown rice, because elements like arsenic accumulate in bran and husk, which are polished off in the processing of white rice. The Department of Agriculture estimates that on average arsenic levels are 10 times as high in rice bran as in polished rice. Although these are mostly tiny amounts — in the part per billion range — chronic exposure to arsenic, even at very low levels, can affect health. The F.D.A. is now considering whether a safety level should be set for arsenic in rice. “Rice is a problem because it’s such a widely consumed grain,” said Rufus Chaney, a senior research agronomist with the U.S.D.A.’s Agricultural Research Service, who is leading a investigation of metal uptake by food crops. “But it’s also a fascinating plant.” Like people, plants have systems for taking up and absorbing necessary nutrients. In plants, these “transporter” systems work to pull minerals such as iron, calcium, zinc and manganese from the soil. The rice plant has a well-designed system for taking up silicon compounds, or silicate, which help strengthen the plant and give stiffness and shape to its stems. Tissues generally referred to as phloem move such water-soluble nutrients throughout the plant. But that delivery system also inclines the plant to vacuum up arsenic compounds, which are unfortunately similar in structure to silicate. And the traditional methods of growing rice, which often involve flooding a field, encourage formation of a soluble arsenic compound, arsenite, that is readily transported by the rice plant. “The issue with the rice plant is that it tends to store the arsenic in the grain, rather than in the leaves or elsewhere,” said Jody Banks, a plant biologist at Purdue University, who studies arsenic uptake in plants. “It moves there quite easily.” The highest concentrations of arsenic in rice-growing regions are mostly found in parts of Asia — including Bangladesh and India — where the underlying arsenic-rich bedrock contaminates groundwater used for both drinking and irrigation of rice fields. But arsenic at lower levels is found in all soils, including American fields. The fertile soils fanning out across the Mississippi River floodplain are up to five times as high in arsenic as other parts of Louisiana, Mississippi and Arkansas, according to studies done by the United States Geological Survey. It’s for that reason, as well as for water conservation, that scientists have experimented with reducing the amount of water used for rice fields. But as Dr. Guerinot has found, that makes cadmium more available to the plant instead. Other plants also take up cadmium, Dr. Chaney noted, usually by the channels normally used to acquire zinc from the soil. But the rice plant, curiously, absorbs nearly all of its cadmium through a manganese transport system. And this route — discovered by a determined group of Japanese researchers — brings a new set of complications. While zinc is relatively common in soil, soluble manganese is less readily found. So cadmium has little competition in the rice plant’s transport system — meaning that it is accumulated with apparent enthusiasm. The association between cadmium in rice and human disease goes back decades. Most scientists cite the identification of itai-itai (ouch-ouch) disease in Japan during the 1960s as the first recognition of this problem. The name comes from the painful effects of bone fractures, one of many health problems related to cadmium exposure. Researchers eventually discovered that cadmium pollution from mines and other industry had spread into rice farming areas in Japan, causing the grain to be loaded with the toxic metal. A host of similar problems have occurred in China, setting off an uproar over tainted rice last year. Scientists say that the cadmium occurring naturally in American soil is not high enough to cause acute disease. Still, because rice is such an important food crop, scientists are searching for ways to block its metal-acquiring tendencies. There are efforts to breed rice plants that transfer more zinc and iron into the grain, which would both increase nutritional quality and reduce toxicity. There are also programs, including the experiment in Texas, that try to breed improved rice cultivars less prone to absorb toxic minerals. And researchers have explored the idea of genetic engineering to make the plant’s transport systems more precise so that cadmium or arsenic is filtered out. Finally, they are looking into using other plants to reduce the toxic elements in the soils themselves, a process called phytoextraction. Dr. Banks, for instance, is studying a fern that deftly pulls arsenic from the soil and stores it in the fronds. The plant, known as a Chinese brake or ladder fern, is so talented in this regard that the Chinese have approached American scientists about the feasibility of using it to clean up contaminated soils. Of course the ferns eventually have to be incinerated or taken to a toxic disposal site. “You definitely wouldn’t want to eat them,” said Dr. Banks. Your health questions answered by Times journalists and experts. Your Questions | All » Get Well's Running email for practical tips, expert advice, exclusive content and a bit of motivation delivered to your inbox every week to help you on your running journey. Coming soon. How much do you know about the amazing things that go on in your gut? Take our quiz to find out about the creepy, crawly critters living in your home. What surface is the most friendly to the flu virus? Where’s the best place to stand when you’re talking to a sick person? How does sleep affect health, relationships and well-being? The “Reading the Mind in the Eyes Test” measures ability to understand others’ emotional states. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   American Out of Hospital. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content Skip to navigation View mobile version The New York Times Cycling|American Out of Hospital Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go http://nyti.ms/1jPozJF Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Supported by Cycling | Sports Briefing | Cycling American Out of Hospital By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 18, 2014 Continue reading the main story Share This Page Continue reading the main story The American Chris Horner, injured in a training accident last week, was released from a hospital in Northern Italy. Horner, 42, had a punctured lung drained and was also treated for four broken ribs, as well as cuts and bruises. He will skip the Giro d’Italia but still hopes to ride in the Tour de France and the Vuelta a España, which he won last year. Continue reading the main story What's Next Loading... Go to Home Page » Site Index The New York Times Site Index Navigation News World U.S. Politics N.Y. Business Tech Science Health Sports Education Obituaries Today's Paper Corrections Opinion Today's Opinion Op-Ed Columnists Editorials Contributing Writers Op-Ed Contributors Opinionator Letters Sunday Review Taking Note Room for Debate Public Editor Video: Opinion Arts Today's Arts Art & Design ArtsBeat Books Dance Movies Music N.Y.C. Events Guide Television Theater Video: Arts Living Automobiles Crossword Food Education Fashion & Style Health Jobs Magazine N.Y.C. Events Guide Real Estate T Magazine Travel Weddings & Celebrations Listings & More Classifieds Tools & Services Times Topics Public Editor N.Y.C. Events Guide Blogs Multimedia Photography Video NYT Store Times Journeys Subscribe Manage My Account Subscribe Subscribe Times Insider Home Delivery Digital Subscriptions NYT Opinion Crossword Email Newsletters Alerts Gift Subscriptions Corporate Subscriptions Education Rate Mobile Applications Replica Edition International New York Times Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Travel   A Beer Vacation Is On Tap in Chicago. Advertisement Lagunitas Brewing Company, the Northern California beer maker with a penchant for live music, has expanded its operations to Chicago, where it will open a  300,000-square-foot facility early next month. But Lagunitas, one of the five best-selling craft brews in the United States last year, won’t just be making beer. Following in the footsteps of its big brother brewery in Petaluma, Calif., it will also offer tours and tastings to hopheads and will host musical guests in its 300-seat concert venue, the TapRoom, five nights a week. As a boon to early visitors, the brewery has partnered with the JW Marriott Chicago hotel to offer a Lagunitas “Beercation” package for travel between May 22 and Sept. 1. Participants will be greeted in their rooms with a selection of craft beers, and later, will receive a complimentary designated driver to and from the brewery (coordinated through Uber, a mobile application that helps find professional cars for hire), where guests will be guided on a tour of the facility, be offered tastings of the brews and be able to check out the TapRoom. Those in town on May 17 or 18 can get a sneak peek at the brewery during its opening party, a Lagunitas “Beer Circus,” the proceeds of which will benefit Rock for Kids, an organization that provides music education to underserved children. Tickets are $40 for those 21 and older and include four tastings. “Beercation” room rates start at $204 per night, including valet parking at the hotel. Reservations can be made at marriott.com/specials using the code “W36″ or by calling 312-660-8200. In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Business   On Wheels. Advertisement By Elizabeth C. Gorski Apr 20, 2014 The New York Times Crossword is available through subscription only. SUNDAY’S PUZZLE — Another triumph from the Queen of Visual puzzles, Elizabeth C. Gorski. One thing Ms. Gorsi forgot to mention in her comments below is that New Yorkers will go to extreme lengths to find parking for their cars, even if it means pulling your fender right up against the car in front of you. Or sometimes on top. Today, eight different car models find parking in her grid, and if you don’t see them, try kicking the tires: those circled or shaded Os are meant to be the wheels of each car. Sitting right on top of each set of wheels is the model: At 26 Across, we have two wheels in the Os of TO YOU, and we have a Honda CIVIC sitting on top. Now it’s up to you to find space for the other seven. You can’t pull something clever like this off without certain sacrifices, and there’s some less-than-optimal fill, like the extraordinarily long partial SLICES INTO. But there’s also a lot to like in Ms. Gorski’s puzzle, like the crunchy COLD CEREAL, BEETLE BAILEY, SNOWY EGRET and STOP COCKS. There’s also the Scrabbly T.S. GARP and C.S. FORESTER. Clue(s) of the Day for me were “City that sounds like a humdinger?” for BUTTE (hint: it’s not pronounced the way it looks) and “Complete shutout?” for EMBARGO. Let’s catch up with the driven Ms. Gorski: Frantic question overheard in my building lobby more than a few times: “Where’d I park the car?” This puzzle was inspired by and dedicated to Alternate Side Parking — the New York City tradition that drives semi-clothed New Yorkers to their cars at strange hours in search of a parking space. What do these folks do while they wait? They drink coffee, talk on the phone and solve crosswords. I am sure that these folks will swing into high gear and crack the thematic code in no time flat: names of car models sit atop circles that contain the letter O. That’s where the rubber hits the road — the solver is asked to inflate each circle with an O and imagine a tire. Yeah, that’s right. I’m making puzzles with tires. For car owners, this should be right in their wheelhouse. For those who don’t own cars, I hope the gimmick doesn’t fall flat. But just to be fair, I (someone who doesn’t own a car but who makes puzzles while listening to “Car Talk”) made sure that the puzzle rolled off the assembly line with something for everyone. The cars are made by different manufacturers and parked in themed entries that have nothing to do with cars. You can be like me (someone who knows nothing about cars) and still solve the puzzle! One last question: Did you find your car in the puzzle? I hope you enjoy the solve today. And if the puzzle drove you up a wall … you know that’s music to my ears. That’s it for our solving week. Let’s zoom out of here with some Beatles: Your thoughts? Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. David Kahn puts us through the wringer.Read more… Emily Cox and Henry Rathvon offer us a challenging cryptic crossword puzzle.Read more… A place for solvers to discuss and ask questions about the “A Little Variety” suite of puzzles.Read more… Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   U.S. Plans Military Drills in Eastern Europe. Advertisement Advertisement By MICHAEL R. GORDONAPRIL 18, 2014 WASHINGTON — The United States plans to carry out small ground-force exercises in Poland and Estonia in an attempt to reassure NATO’s Eastern European members worried about Russia’s military operations in and near Ukraine, Western officials said Friday. The moves are part of a broader effort by NATO to strengthen the alliance’s air, sea and land presence in Eastern Europe in response to Russia’s new assertiveness in the region. It is not yet clear what additional troop deployments the United States and other NATO nations might undertake in Eastern Europe after the exercises and to what extent the moves would ease anxieties there. The land-force exercises the Obama administration is planning are extremely modest. The exercise in Poland, which is expected to be announced next week, would involve a United States Army company and would last about two weeks, officials said. A company consists of about 150 soldiers. The exercise in Estonia would be similar, said a Western official who declined to be identified because he was talking about internal planning. Advertisement Although the exercises would be short, the United States is considering other ways to maintain a regular ground-force presence in Eastern Europe by rotating troops and conducting training there. “There’s an entire range of possibilities and measures that are being considered,” Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel said on Thursday in a joint news conference with Poland’s defense minister, Tomasz Siemoniak. “Rotational basis of training and exercises are always part of that.” The company-size Army exercise that is planned is far from the sort of NATO deployment that Poland’s foreign minister, Radoslaw Sikorski, suggested this month when he told reporters that he wanted the alliance to deploy two combat brigades with as many as 5,000 troops each in Poland. This week, NATO’s top military commander, Gen. Philip M. Breedlove, gave members of the alliance a range of options for strengthening its military posture in response to Russia’s annexation of Crimea, along with his own recommendations. The measures include immediate, midterm and long-term steps. One option, General Breedlove said in an interview this month, is to move the 4,500-member American combat brigade from Fort Hood, Tex., to Europe. But Obama administration officials have not publicly supported such a step. The first hint that the Obama administration plans to announce that American troops would be sent to Poland was provided on Friday by The Washington Post, which noted that Mr. Siemoniak had said that the move had been agreed to on a political level but provided no details. The United States has already sent 12 F-16 fighter jets and 200 support personnel to Poland. NATO’s secretary general, Anders Fogh Rasmussen, said this week that the alliance would fly more air patrols over the Baltic region and that allied ships would deploy to the Baltic Sea. Mr. Rasmussen left open the possibility for additional deployments, including on land. “More will follow, if needed, in the weeks and months to come,” he said. NATO officials have said that a number of member nations in addition to the United States were offering to provide ground troops, which could be sent to Eastern European members through the end of the year. A version of this article appears in print on April 19, 2014, on page A9 of the New York edition with the headline: U.S. Plans Military Drills in Eastern Europe. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Sports   Yankees’ Bullpen Comes Undone Along With Their Lead. Advertisement Advertisement By PETER KERASOTISAPRIL 19, 2014 ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. — Concerns surrounding the Yankees’ bullpen entering this season appeared to have been erased through the first 16 games. Even without the retired Mariano Rivera and the injured David Robertson, Yankees relievers had complemented some stellar starting pitching performances to help propel the team to the top of the American League East. But on Friday night against the Tampa Bay Rays, the relievers could not preserve a lead for starter Hiroki Kuroda, who left after five and two-thirds innings with the Yankees leading by a run. The bullpen allowed eight runs — three in the seventh and five in the eighth — as the Rays rallied for an 11-5 victory at Tropicana Field. Things fell apart in the seventh, when David Phelps, Matt Thornton and Adam Warren combined to allow three hits and two walks, turning the lead into a 6-5 deficit. Warren got the first two batters of the eighth before surrendering a double to the No. 9 hitter, Ryan Hanigan, and a two-run homer to Sean Rodriguez that knocked Warren from the game. The situation went from bad to ugly when Cesar Cabral came on in relief of Warren. After allowing a pair of singles, Cabral hit Evan Longoria and James Loney in consecutive at-bats to load the bases. He then yielded a run-scoring single to Wil Myers and hit Logan Forsythe, which earned Cabral an ejection from the home-plate umpire, Joe West. Advertisement “I didn’t try to hit anybody,” Cabral said. “I was trying to throw strikes. It happens sometimes.” Rays Manager Joe Maddon said he did not believe Cabral’s wildness was intentional. But he also agreed with the decision to eject Cabral. West said: “He hit the first guy in the leg with a fastball, the second guy in the leg with a changeup, and the third guy in the back, and that was enough. Do I think he did it maliciously? Probably not. But before somebody got hurt, something had to be done.” According to Baseball Almanac, three other Yankees pitchers have hit three batters in an inning, the most recent being Javier Vazquez, who did so in a 2010 game, also against the Rays. It was a departure from the way the bullpen performed in the Yankees’ previous seven games, when they held hitters to a .118 average over 151/3 scoreless innings. But on Friday, instead of escaping damage, the Yankees relievers seemed to walk headfirst into it. “I couldn’t make quality pitches when I needed to,” said Warren, who took the loss after giving up four hits and three runs. “I was getting ahead of most of the guys. I was getting two strikes. But I just couldn’t put guys away.” It was costly not only for the Yankees but also for Cabral, who was designated for assignment after the game. The Yankees appeared to be in control as they scored four runs in the second and got the benefit of a replay challenge. Advertisement Brian McCann and Yangervis Solarte opened the inning with back-to-back singles. Kelley Johnson reached on a fielder’s choice to load the bases before Scott Sizemore cleared them with double to deep center. With Sizemore on second, Ichiro Suzuki pushed a bunt down the third-base line. Longoria fielded the ball and threw to first. Suzuki was called out, but a review reversed the call. It kept the big inning alive and allowed the Yankees to score another run on a groundout by Brett Gardner. Solarte has been part of a mix-and-match Yankees infield that continues to play solid defense. The infield turned crisp double plays in the second and third after Kuroda had put the leadoff man aboard in each inning. Sizemore, who started at third Friday, curtailed a potential breakout inning for the Rays in the fourth. With runners on first and third and two outs, and two runs already across in the inning, Sizemore charged a grounder hit by Forsythe and made a strong off-balance throw to beat Forsythe by a step at first. It was not the only defensive gem of that inning. With one out, center fielder Jacoby Ellsbury made a leaping catch against the wall to rob Ben Zobrist. It helped Kuroda last into the sixth and leave with the Yankees ahead — just not with enough cushion for the bullpen. “We’ve had a lot of games like this where the bullpen kept the lead and we ended up with the win,” Kuroda said through an interpreter. “Obviously, there are good days and bad days for everyone.” INSIDE PITCH Outfielder Carlos Beltran had a magnetic resonance imaging test Friday on his right wrist and left shoulder. Beltran flipped over the right-field wall in foul territory Thursday as he was chasing a fly ball. His status is day to day. ... First baseman Mark Teixeira (hamstring) had five at-bats and played five innings in an extended spring training game Friday in Tampa, Fla., and was still on track to return to the lineup Sunday. A version of this article appears in print on April 19, 2014, on page D4 of the New York edition with the headline: Yankees’ Bullpen Comes Undone Along With Their Lead. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Business   They Disprove Claims. Advertisement   By John Lieb Apr 21, 2014 The New York Times Crossword is available through subscription only. MONDAY’S PUZZLE — This was a puzzle where I had to make sense of the theme after I finished solving. That usually doesn’t happen to me on Mondays but, hey, it’s a brand new week, and anything can happen here at Wordplay. John Lieb is back and today he offers us some COUNTEREXAMPLES. The theme entries are not actually counters to any original examples, mind you; they’re examples of jobs where people might be called upon to count things: the HOME PLATE UMPIRE counts balls, the BANK MANAGER counts money, the BLACK JACK PLAYER counts cards, and the CENSUS TAKER counts people. I liked that all four of the theme entries and the reveal at 58 Across are unique and making their debuts today. The crunchy ZAGAT and PRATFALL make their debuts today as well. Let’s chat up Mr. Lieb: As a high school math teacher, I use the word “counterexample” fairly regularly, but the idea for using the word as the basis for a puzzle theme struck as I was being a student, taking a grad school math class this past summer. Sitting in a lecture, trying to track a proof that was a bit out of my reach, the mention of “counterexample” set my mind in a different direction, and I started trying to come up with people that count for a living (likely not the kind of thing my students daydream about). Realizing that “counterexamples” was 15 letters long made me intensify my efforts, and I lucked out by finding two other 15-letter examples and then two 11-letter examples. Getting two words to cross three theme entries made filling the grid a little easier, and I enjoyed the changes Will made to many of my clues, as I’m still trying to find the sweet spot of easy but interesting clues for a Monday puzzle. As I was constructing the puzzle, I was inspired by my first, and perhaps the ultimate, “counterexample,” a certain denizen of Sesame Street. Poking around the Internet, I found this clip from the late 80s, in which I greatly enjoyed seeing the confluence of Count von Count, New York and being a 17-Across. Speaking of PRATFALLs, I’ve always liked to think that Chevy Chase was the heir apparent to Buster Keaton when it came to physical comedy. Mr. Chase turned the occasional slip by one of our most physically adept presidents — a former college football player — into one of the funniest shticks of the 1970s. Let’s watch a clip of some of the best presidential impersonators in recent history: For the record, I also loved Vaughn Meader as John F. Kennedy. Your thoughts? Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. David Kahn puts us through the wringer.Read more… Emily Cox and Henry Rathvon offer us a challenging cryptic crossword puzzle.Read more… A place for solvers to discuss and ask questions about the “A Little Variety” suite of puzzles.Read more… Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   India Election Digest: April 21. Advertisement   What you need to know on Monday about India’s elections: Residents of Punjab city see a connection between drugs and politics, the Bharatiya Janata Party backs off its campaign song, and analysts warn that it’s too early to count out the Indian National Congress. Illegal narcotics are linked to politics in the state of Punjab. (Scroll.in) News and analysis on the world’s largest election. The opposition Bharatiya Janata Party has quietly dropped its campaign song, which insiders said was too aggressive and harsh in its tone. (The Times of India) Political analysts say that even if the Indian National Congress is defeated in the elections, it’s not likely to disappear from Indian politics. (Outlook) In a village in Uttar Pradesh, the killing of a Dalit girl in June 2012, which police say was by Muslim youths, and its aftermath weigh heavily on the minds of voters. (The Indian Express) An editorial warns of the use of threats by politicians in this election season. (The Indian Express) On the campaign trail with Arun Jaitley, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s top strategist, who is running for Parliament in Amritsar in Punjab. (Open) The shifting Ganges River has forced villagers to move repeatedly, raising questions about voters’ identities. (The Hindu) A portrait of Pappu Yadav, a strongman in Madhepura, Bihar State, also known as Rajesh Ranjan, as he holds court in his campaign headquarters. (The Telegraph) India’s national elections began April 7 and will continue on nine separate dates until May 12, with results expected to be announced on May 16. The vote is the world’s largest, with 814 million eligible voters set to choose 543 members of the lower house of Parliament. The other two seats will be appointed by the president. This election is widely considered to be India’s most consequential since 1977. India Ink will be moving to the World page of The New York Times. Read more… A memorial ceremony at the Imphal War Cemetery in Manipur to honor the soldiers who died during World War II.Read more… The newly elected prime minister reaches out to the public in a blog post about his first 30 days in office.Read more… Newborns whose mothers are unable to breastfeed are given stored breast milk to protect them from potentially life-threatening infection.Read more… In the final stage of a long decline, Hindustan Motors announced in May that it would suspend production of the Ambassador, a car that was once synonymous with style and status.Read more… This report on India from the journalists of The New York Times and a pool of talented writers in India and beyond provides unbiased, authoritative reporting on the country and its place in the world. India Ink also strives to be a virtual meeting point for discussion of this complex, fast-changing democracy – its politics, economy, culture and everyday life. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Society   It Just Needed Time to Brew. Advertisement Advertisement By MARGAUX LASKEYAPRIL 20, 2014 Erica Ruth Shea, a daughter of Nancy K. Shea of Georgetown, Mass., and Kevin B. Shea of Boston, was married Friday to Stephen Paul Valand, a son of Randi J. Valand and Olav R. Valand of Brooklyn. Jordan Saia, a friend of the couple who became a Universal Life minister for the event, officiated at the Green Building in Brooklyn. Ms. Shea, 29, and Mr. Valand, 28, are the founders and owners of Brooklyn Brew Shop in Brooklyn, which makes and sells gallon beer-brewing kits for use in small spaces. The couple, graduates of Boston University, were students in the film program there in fall 2005 when they met at a Halloween party. She was dressed as a 1950s housewife and carried a pineapple upside-down cake around all evening; he went as a middle-aged Jamie Lee Curtis, wearing a “mother-of-the-bride dress” that he had found at a thrift store and a name tag that bore the actress’s name. The party was noisy so their conversation was brief and stilted. Though Mr. Valand walked her home and they still saw each other around campus, neither immediately followed up to see the other again. “He didn’t Facebook me, so I thought he didn’t like me,” she said. But he said his inaction was a result of his immaturity and laziness, not a lack of interest. Advertisement “If I had been an adult at the time, we probably would have started a relationship earlier,” he said. In fall 2007, they reconnected at a mutual friend’s concert in Brooklyn. This time, with the volume down a few decibels, they were able to talk more and discovered that they shared an unusual sense of humor, one-upping each other with clever witticisms. He escorted her home on the subway that evening, and their battle of wits continued via text for several months. But it took them until early January 2008 to get together in person, when she invited him to her apartment. “It was a snowstorm, and I had a fridge full of pink Champagne,” she said. “We had a dance party and made shadow puppets on the wall. I thought it was the best first date ever.” They became a couple and spent much of their free time working together on cooking and kitchen projects. For Christmas that year, she gave him her father’s old beer-brewing kit, which she had found in the basement. Brewing beer became a regular weekend activity for the couple. But they found her father’s five-gallon kit to be almost impossible to use in a tiny New York apartment, so they decided to create a one-gallon kit by using parts they found online. They considered opening a business together selling kits, but they were hesitant, since their relationship was still relatively new. As a test, they decided to go on a seven-week backpacking trip throughout Europe (bonus: numerous beers to taste), and if they still liked each other after the trip, they would go into business together. They quit their jobs in March, left for Europe in April and returned mid-June. On July 5, 2009, Brooklyn Brew Shop opened a stand at the Brooklyn Flea markets. They became engaged last April. Some have marveled at how the couple can live and work together (their desks even face each other). And while running their own business has sometimes been exhausting, their partnership has helped them overcome their own tendencies not to always follow through (as shown by how long it took to get together). If one of them doesn’t finish a task, the other steps in. “You know how people say you finish each other’s sentences?” Mr. Valand said. “Sometimes you finish another’s sentence because the other person is about to fall asleep at the table. The only way we could get something done was together. When we were disparate individuals, we were pretty hapless.” A version of this article appears in print on April 20, 2014, on page ST14 of the New York edition with the headline: It Just Needed Time to Brew. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Sports   Wie Rallies for Third Win. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content Skip to navigation View mobile version The New York Times Golf|Wie Rallies for Third Win Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go http://nyti.ms/1lqBkKd Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Supported by Golf | Sports Briefing Wie Rallies for Third Win By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 20, 2014 Continue reading the main story Share This Page Continue reading the main story Michelle Wie rallied from four strokes back entering the day to shoot a five-under 67 and win the L.P.G.A. Lotte Championship in Kapolei, Hawaii. Wie, 24, finished at 14-under 274 after entering the final round trailing the third-round leader, Angela Stanford, by four shots after Friday’s play. It was Wie’s third L.P.G.A. tour win, and first since the CN Canadian Women’s Open in 2010. A version of this brief appears in print on April 20, 2014, on page SP8 of the New York edition with the headline: Wie Rallies for Third Win. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Continue reading the main story What's Next Loading... Go to Home Page » Site Index The New York Times Site Index Navigation News World U.S. Politics N.Y. Business Tech Science Health Sports Education Obituaries Today's Paper Corrections Opinion Today's Opinion Op-Ed Columnists Editorials Contributing Writers Op-Ed Contributors Opinionator Letters Sunday Review Taking Note Room for Debate Public Editor Video: Opinion Arts Today's Arts Art & Design ArtsBeat Books Dance Movies Music N.Y.C. Events Guide Television Theater Video: Arts Living Automobiles Crossword Food Education Fashion & Style Health Jobs Magazine N.Y.C. Events Guide Real Estate T Magazine Travel Weddings & Celebrations Listings & More Classifieds Tools & Services Times Topics Public Editor N.Y.C. Events Guide Blogs Multimedia Photography Video NYT Store Times Journeys Subscribe Manage My Account Subscribe Subscribe Times Insider Home Delivery Digital Subscriptions NYT Opinion Crossword Email Newsletters Alerts Gift Subscriptions Corporate Subscriptions Education Rate Mobile Applications Replica Edition International New York Times Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Travel   My European Ritual. Advertisement Advertisement From the roses of Granada to herring in Amsterdam to a hike above Athens, writers share the draws that pull them back time and again. APRIL 18, 2014 By Russell Shorto Left, Herman Wouters for The New York Times; center and right, Ilvy Njiokiktjien for The New York Times Herman Wouters for The New York Times For the six years I lived in Amsterdam I had a weekly ritual that revolved around herring. Once a week, on no particular day, I’d mosey down the street from my office and stand in line outside a tiny shop near the harborfront called V.O.F. Vishandel Centrum. Once you get in the door you’re in a pleasant, fishy-homey atmosphere that surely recalls what the city was like a century ago. In the back a man brandishing a wicked little knife carves fish fillets. Behind the counter two women with paper hats and aprons are packing up orders. The glass case shows off meaty slabs of salmon and cod, bowls of mussels mixed into a salad, eel slices arranged like jewelry. The women banter with customers in the flat twang of the old Amsterdammer accent, and the air is scented by kibbeling: battered chunks of deep-fried fish. I would not be breaking news in announcing that Dutch cuisine is an overall downer, but the Dutch are finicky about their seafood being fresh and lovely, and the one standout on their cultural menu is herring. I’m not talking about vinegared herring, a feature of German cuisine. Dutch herring, called maatjes, is made by steeping adolescent fish in a light brine mixture. The result is almost but not quite raw: The flesh is rich and oily; the flavor is bright. There are two ways to eat Dutch herring: the Amsterdam way and the manner favored everywhere else. The non-Amsterdam method is, in a word, just wrong: The “diner” holds the fish aloft by the tail, tilts his or her head back, opens the mouth, and slowly lowers the thing in. Unseemly, no? In Amsterdam, the herring comes on a dignified paper plate, cut in slices, or (my preference) on a roll: a broodje haring, or herring sandwich. Traditionally it’s served with chopped raw onions and sweet pickles, and that’s how I get it. Each of the three flavors is strong, their interaction is just right, and a canalside bench is precisely the spot to enjoy it. By Joanna Kakissis Eirini Vourloumis for The New York Times For all its Mediterranean light and spontaneity, Athens can feel claustrophobic to even the most enthusiastic lover of urban chaos. With unlovely apartment blocks on its borders, it’s easy to pass the bitter-orange trees on the sidewalk and forget this could be paradise. Green spaces are rare in Athens, but in the suburb of Galatsi, not far from my home, there’s a hilly park that stretches 63 glorious acres. The Alsos Veikou (Forest of Veikou) contains a theater, an open-air cinema, two cafes, playgrounds, a skate park, swimming pool, tennis courts and a track and soccer field. I first saw the park on a spring day 20 years ago, while visiting this city where I was born and which I left as a young girl. I hiked one of the winding trails with a high-energy Greek Australian mathematician, admiring the view of Athens and the port of Piraeus, a pearly jumble on the glittering Saronic Gulf. Now that I live in Athens, Alsos Veikou is my weekend escape from concrete and crowds. I hike the pine- and plane-shaded paths, passing old men in newsboy caps playing backgammon, pigtailed girls doing handstands near bouquets of snapdragons, toddlers eating cotton candy and young mothers — some in miniskirts, others in flowered headscarves — eating Eddie’s homemade pistachio ice cream. (Eddie sells cones out of a cart). On a recent visit, the spring sun in full beam, I hiked to a summit with an elderly Egyptian couple who had emigrated to Athens 20 years ago. We smelled roses and thyme and spotted wild broad beans sprouting in the grass. Paradise, we said, in accented Greek. Below us, at a comfortable distance, the city’s concrete glowed pink in the afternoon light. By Charly Wilder Mustafah Abdulaziz for The New York Times Until I tried them together, neither single-malt whisky nor doom metal made much sense to me. The first seemed overrated — a decent drink but hardly worthy of all the macho lore and rhapsodizing on peat content and cask type. As for doom metal, with its sludgy guitars and demon voices, it was hard to imagine it being enjoyed unironically by actual adults — or really anyone not planning a murder-suicide. But then, when I tried them at the same time, it all made perfect sense. For the past two years, I’ve been joining a revolving group of enthusiasts — mostly black-clad 30- and 40-somethings — in the back rooms of various Berlin bars for a ritual that’s somewhere between a wine tasting and a Black Mass. Started in 2011 by the Danish sound artist Lars Lundehave Hansen, and Peter Votava, an Austrian electronic musician who was part of the cultish early rave duo Ilsa Gold, Taste the Doom pairs seven drams of small-batch and single-malt whiskies with doom metal tracks about 15 minutes long. The 25-euro tickets sell out within hours. Mr. Hansen and Mr. Votava introduce the pairings. “The Black Holes of Your Mind,” a track by the Black Wreath, seems to draw out the murky complexity of Old Ballantruan 50 percent, an ultra-potent peated whisky from Strathspey in the Scottish Highlands “so dark it sucks the light out of the room,” as Mr. Hansen put it. The French doom metal band Monarch’s feedback-laden wall of “sonic sludge, mud and dirt” is “the musical equivalent of undiluted strength of cask” found in Glenfarclas CWH nine years 56.1 percent. It’s hard to deny that doom metal and whisky have a tonal kinship. “They share the same depth, heaviness, slowness,” Mr. Votava said. “Both must be given time.” Even the stories surrounding each distillery — from the fire that decimated the Talisker facilities on the Scottish island of Skye in 1960 to Kilchoman’s proximity to the site of a deadly 1918 shipwreck at the Mull of Oa in southwest Islay — tend to skew dark. Both whisky and doom metal also seem fine-tuned for existential pain, something typically best experienced in solitude. Yet somehow this works as a group ritual. By the end of the seventh dram, the whole room always seems downright jovial. By Evan Rail Gianni Cipriano for The New York Times From Palermo to Trieste, there’s almost too much to see in Italy, but I still somehow visit the same place over and over again. Each spring while traveling to the Birra dell’Anno beer festival in Rimini, I pass through the somewhat gritty northern city of Bologna, and stroll through its ancient market quarter, the Quadrilatero. Located between the Piazza Maggiore and Via Castiglione, a couple of short blocks to the east, the neighborhood shows off the bounty of what has to be Italy’s culinary capital, the hometown of tortellini, tagliatelle, mortadella and ragù Bolognese. Numerous cheeses, hams, oils and vinegars originated in the surrounding region of Emilia-Romagna. Shopping in the Quadrilatero is an almost overwhelming sensory experience. When you walk through the creaky doors of one of the district’s great delis, like Tamburini, the rich aromas of hanging hams and the giant, aged blocks of Parmigiano-Reggiano and other cheeses hit you square in the nose. Despite the narrowness of the streets, the creak and scrape of rusty old bicycles cuts through the crowds in front of places like the Gilberto enoteca, which stocks great wine, spirits and chocolates and its own limoncello. The greatest impressions, however, are visual: hundred-year-old shop interiors, filled with dark wood and gleaming brass fittings, multicolored variations on pastas, and foods with confusing names, like “ravioline arancia-mostarda,” that you’ll want to look up later (in this case, a soft, sugar-dusted cookie with a bittersweet orange-mustard filling). Despite its age, the Quadrilatero now has several new arrivals, including a bookstore-meets-trattoria branch of Eataly, the Italian culinary powerhouse. Eataly has branches all over the world, from Chicago to Tokyo. But in the old shops of the Quadrilatero, you get the impression that you’re seeing — and hearing, smelling and tasting — something with a very real sense of place. By Lauren Frayer Ákos Stiller for The New York Times Budapest’s bridges are like boot laces pulling together the city’s two halves — the castled hills of Buda and bustling, flat Pest. I like to walk them one by one, zigzagging up the Danube at dusk, immersed in the city without actually entering it. Electric bulbs twine the bridges’ steel halyards that both hoist you up and light your way. My Hungarian father-in-law fled this city in 1956 when Soviet tanks rolled in. Now he and my mother-in-law live part of the year in a village on Hungary’s plains where the neighbors kill a duck for dinner when you arrive. Each spring, my husband and I visit and pass a precious week offline — drinking homemade wine, building bonfires and riding rickety bicycles through farmland. En route we pause in Budapest and walk the bridges. We start after a dip in Buda’s thermal Gellert Baths, where elderly men play chess in waist-high hot water. We’re smacked by the cold wind as we mount the Liberty Bridge out front, the first one rebuilt after Nazis bombed all these bridges on their 1945 retreat. Damp hair steaming, we squeeze past joggers and tourists, our fingers strumming the bridge’s green balustrades as dinner cruises flick on their deck lights below. We pop into the cavernous Central Market Hall, off the bridge’s Pest ramp, ducking hanging salami and strings of drying paprikas, in search of cheese-sprinkled pogacsas — knots of savory bread, tucked in a paper sleeve and served with a glass of palinka fruit brandy. We eat leaning against a rail on the Elizabeth Bridge, traffic whizzing past. Above us, Soviet-style statues peek out from behind trees on Gellert Hill. As the stars come out, we walk the Chain Bridge, the city’s oldest, bracketed by stone lions and kerchiefed Gypsies hawking packs of tissues. Buda Castle rises behind us, with the glowing halls of Parliament up ahead. Halfway across the Margaret Bridge, up north, we pause in the dark, turning back toward the hum of music on shore, while the Danube rushes beneath our feet, on its way from the Alps to the Black Sea. By Seth Sherwood Jakob Dall for The New York Times “Have you had your airport polser yet?” The question greets me every time I visit the Danish branch of my family. Over the years, my stepmother and stepbrothers have observed with amusement my obsession with their country’s excellent polser — sausages — literally from the moment I step off my flight. Thanks to Steff’s Place, a stand in the Copenhagen airport, I always get a warm welcome: spicy red sausage, well seasoned with cayenne. A New York City boy, I was weaned on the classic hot dogs sold at places like Papaya King and Orange Julius. When my father moved to Denmark some 20 years ago, I was delighted to discover a pork-centric culture where pigs outnumber the 5.6 million inhabitants by 5 to 1, and sausage stands are beloved and legion. In Copenhagen, styles abound, from short grilled hot dogs on a bun to long slim variants, served without bread, that you hold in your hand and dip into ketchup, mustard and chopped onions. Sausages wrapped in bacon or sunk into hollowed-out French bread tackle oversize appetites. After Steff’s Place, my pork path leads in myriad directions. My friend Ole is partial to Harry’s Place, a decades-old dive where working-class men munch silently at the counter. The lone offering is a thick, succulent specimen accompanied by “gunpowder” — the house’s fiery chile sauce — and toasted bread. Following local custom, we drink Cocio, a chocolate-flavored beverage that pairs with polser like Champagne with oysters. In the cool minimalist interior of Andersen Bakery next to Tivoli Gardens, the kitchen turns out “gourmet hot dogs,” including a wasabi-jalapeño sausage on a brioche-like bun and topped with crunchy-sweet cucumber slices and fried onions. And there’s a sausage for any mood at D.O.P.,top, a cart next to the 17th-century Round Tower that I recently discovered. On a chilly afternoon, indie rock played from small speakers and a Charles Bukowski novel lay open near the register. “This is a different kind of hot-dog stand,” said Kristoffer Toft, a blond surfer type on duty, as he handed me more proof: a grilled goat-parsley-buckthorn sausage with beets and spicy ketchup. My Copenhagen hot-dog trail now has a promising new link. By Liz Alderman Liz Alderman/The New York Times When Washington Irving first laid eyes on Granada, Spain, in the late 1820s, he was awe-struck. It is “a most picturesque and beautiful city, situated in one of the loveliest landscapes that I have ever seen,” he wrote. Crowned by the brilliant 14th-century Alhambra — arguably the most beautifully preserved Moorish palace in the world — Granada’s charm has only grown. For the last four years, I have made pilgrimages there in August following a yoga retreat in nearby Málaga. My goal: to smell the roses in the adjacent Generalife gardens, where arched fountains, manicured cypress trees and pebble mosaics frame a sumptuous botanical collection. Like Irving, I am captivated by the Alhambra. Built for Spain’s last Muslim emirs, its splendid architecture radiates with impossibly intricate arabesques and painted tiles. Cool water diverted from the Darro River arcs from fountains in diamond jets, or ripples hypnotically in eternal concentric circles. And then there are the flowers —more than 80,000 dancing in a riot of red, yellow, purple and white. But it was the perfume of the Generalife’s roses that sealed the spell. Friends had warned me not to visit during the hottest months, when temperatures can top 100 degrees Fahrenheit. Yet the sultry air heats the rose oils, so that when you approach, the scent curls around you like an odoriferous wreath. On my most recent visit, one hot pink rose smelled like lemon-tinged candy. A shimmering white rose was redolent with Oriental spices. A fat bumblebee hovered in the balmy fuchsia petals of another. Irving was right: “All these sights and sounds,” he concluded, were “such stuff as dreams are made of.” By Jennifer Conlin Andrew Testa for The New York Times During the dozen years I lived in London, I never tired of spending a leisurely Sunday on the south bank of the Thames. With majestic views (just across the river one can see Big Ben, the Houses of Parliament and St. Paul’s Cathedral), the area offers everything from art and theater to film and architecture in one tidy day. On a recent afternoon, I walked across the steel suspension Millennium Bridge — with James Bond-type speedboats passing underneath — and went straight to the Tate Modern, housed in a former power station. Filled with iconic art (Surrealism, Pop Art, minimalist conceptual and digital), I headed to one of my favorite works on the third floor: the Mark Rothko Seagram murals, which demonstrate the artist’s genius for experimenting with color, in this case haunting dark red and brownish hues. In years past, with my children in tow, a favorite was Turbine Hall; many exhibits include huge interactive pieces, including metal and fiberglass tubes that visitors old and young can slide down. Then it’s on to the Wharf, a fish joint on the water, where the airy décor and outdoor dining area offer just the right atmosphere for a big plate of fish and chips, before stopping at the outdoor food market by the Southbank Center for a slice of toffee cheesecake. After roaming through the boutiques in Oxo Tower, a perfect conclusion to the day is a concert at the Royal Festival Hall, a play at the National Theater or a movie at the BFI. Passing the many twinkling lights of the Thames bridges on the way home can’t help but revitalize one for the coming week. By Elaine Sciolino Alex Cretey Systermans for The New York Times From 11 a.m. until 1 p.m. on the third Sunday of each month, a group of retirees takes over a corner of the Rue des Martyrs in my neighborhood in the Ninth Arrondissement. It’s time for Circul’Livre, a volunteer operation dedicated to the preservation of the book. Circul’Livre was created in 2004 and now operates in about 20 locations throughout Paris. Used books are classified by subject and displayed in crates. They are not for sale. Customers take as many as they want as long as they adhere to an informal code of honor neither to sell nor destroy them. They are encouraged to drop off their old books. I can come home with two shopping bags of books. I hide them behind the couch if my husband is home, and then cram them into corners of my shelves. I have returned with Henri Troyat novels, cookbooks from the 1980s and biographies of Jean-Paul Sartre, Brigitte Bardot and Joan of Arc. In exchange, I have given Circul’Livre English-language novels, museum catalogs and copies of Foreign Affairs. I know I get the better deal. I encourage visitors to join me. Who wouldn’t want to engage in a pleasurable, free exercise that could result in a photo book on the secrets of the Loire or an obscure novel by Marcel Pagnol? Afterward, stroll to Le Comptoir Belge, a takeout shop on the Rue des Martyrs where you’ll find Belgian waffles stuffed with chocolate. Or pretend to be French by taking your books to a nearby architectural gem: the Place St.-Georges. The best perch is a window seat on the second floor of the bistro facing the cobblestoned square. A fountain with a statue of the 19th-century neighborhood painter and caricaturist Paul Gavarni sits at the center. On one side of the Place is a Gothic-Renaissance mansion built for the notorious courtesan Marquise de Païva; on the other is a mansion housing an invitation-only library specializing in 19th-century Paris. And at the Théâtre St.-Georges on the corner, the filmmaker Francois Truffaut shot his 1980 film, “The Last Métro.” I call this outing my monthly “bulle de bonheur” — “bubble of happiness” — unscheduled time and as many books as I want for free. An article on April 20 about buying polser (sausages) at stands in Copenhagen misstated the population of that country, and therefore the ratio of pigs to humans. Denmark has 5.6 million inhabitants, not nine million, so pigs outnumber the inhabitants by more than 5 to 1, not 3 to 1.
U.S.   The L.B.J. Poverty Tour. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Video The L.B.J. Poverty Tour Apr. 21, 2014 | 2:59 Footage from the Lyndon B. Johnson Presidential Library of the President’s “Poverty Tour” through the Appalachian states in 1964. Related: article: 50 Years Into the War on Poverty, Hardship Hits Back Show More PlaylistUp Next in Video Next → Op-Docs: Season 5 9:23 I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked   Video1:08 Hitting all the Right Notes Op-Docs: Season 5 13:33 Manufacturing China’s Future Op-Docs: Season 5 6:05 Fashion vs. Art   Video0:56 Excerpt: ‘The Father’   Video0:33 Excerpt: ‘Exit Strategy’ Op-Docs: Season 5 7:19 A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race   Video1:58 Excerpt: ‘Antlia Pneumatica’   News Clips: Europe1:20 Officials React to Panama Papers   News Clips: Europe3:47 Mossack Fonseca on Data Leak © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Business   It May Be Read to a Miscreant. Advertisement By Ed Sessa Apr 22, 2014 The New York Times Crossword is available through subscription only. TUESDAY’S PUZZLE — You are getting sleepy … keep your eyes on the circled/shaded squares in Ed Sessa’s puzzle and when you are feeling really, really relaxed, make the check out to me and send it to … never mind. Just kidding. You might feel a bit dizzy following the unique visual TICK TOCK theme of Mr. Sessa’s puzzle. My main impression was that there was this odd dichotomy between the simplicity of the theme — it’s just the TICK TOCK thing — and some tougher fill in the north. I got POKE through the crossings, for example, but I doubt I would have thought of it immediately as an answer to the clue “Dawdler.” Also, AGIO is a word we see mostly in crossword puzzles, and it seemed out of place in a Tuesday puzzle, especially with both of those entries crossing KAMPALA. Yes, it’s the capital of Uganda, but it’s only Tuesday. My brain isn’t playing geography bingo just yet. I panicked slightly when I saw the clue “Trig ratio” at 12 Down and my brain shut down completely — a normal response for me when I see anything with the word “trig” followed by a cross-referenced clue — when I had to figure out the reciprocal at 28 Down. Thank God for crossings. The answers are COSEC and SINE, respectively. I think a central entry or some sort of reveal might have made this puzzle a bit more interesting. Mr. Sessa speaks more about the fill in his comments below. I did like seeing NUTCASE and RIOT ACT in the grid, and yes, Mr. Sessa sort of “Half moon”s us toward the end at 62 Across with his last theme entry BUTTOCK. Let’s hear more from Mr. Sessa: Obviously the simple concept for this puzzle was the visual animation of a pendulum clock (going further, I was thinking of those “moving eyes” cat clocks.) I realized early on that I was in some trouble when the only entries I could come up with that did not have a S-TOCK ending was an old and probably unfamiliar to many John Wayne movie and of course the “bum” entry. Those two entries would dictate the length of their partners on the other side of the puzzle, also limiting those entries as well. So to critics I would say I recognize that the puzzle fill is not as good as I had hoped it would be. If I had to do over again I might have tried to add a central vertical entry in the vein of, say, “time marches on” but again I don’t know if I could have pulled it off given the constraints of the grid. I’m delighted that Will Shortz thought enough of the concept of the puzzle to accept it, and I hope that solvers take some enjoyment in the visual play here. Time will tell. Indeed. Taking us on to the Wednesday puzzle is Pink Floyd’s “Time” (warning: the clock sounds at the beginning can be a bit loud.) Your thoughts? Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. David Kahn puts us through the wringer.Read more… Emily Cox and Henry Rathvon offer us a challenging cryptic crossword puzzle.Read more… A place for solvers to discuss and ask questions about the “A Little Variety” suite of puzzles.Read more… Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Food   Food Curated: Brooklyn Bouillon. Channels & Shows Home Search Food Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Food Food Curated: Brooklyn Bouillon By Liza de Guia | Apr. 21, 2014 | 5:32 Rachael Mamane thought she could generate extra income for farmers who raise animals by creating a line of stocks from discarded bones. Brooklyn Bouillon was born from the idea. Related: article: Video: Brooklyn Bouillon Show More PlaylistUp Next in Food Next → Melissa Clark Food2:08 Coconut Cluster Granola   International1:04 McDonald’s Copycat in Separatist Ukraine Melissa Clark Food1:51 Green Garlic Tabbouleh   Food1:46 Beer-Brined Roast Chicken | Taste Makers   Taste Makers6:32 Finding Your Flavors in the Kitchen | Taste Makers   Food1:12 Tomatillo Pineapple Salsa | Taste Makers   Taste Makers5:40 Growing Organics ‘Sin Fronteras’ | Taste Makers   Food1:16 Jollof Rice | Taste Makers   Taste Makers6:01 Nigerian Food, Crash-and-Burn Style | Taste Makers Melissa Clark Food2:33 Chicken and Artichokes © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Foreign   Image of the Day: April 21. Advertisement   India’s national elections began April 7 and will continue on nine separate dates until May 12, with results expected to be announced on May 16. The vote is the world’s largest, with 814 million eligible voters set to choose 543 members of the lower house of Parliament. The other two seats will be appointed by the president. This election is widely considered to be India’s most consequential since 1977. India Ink will be moving to the World page of The New York Times. Read more… A memorial ceremony at the Imphal War Cemetery in Manipur to honor the soldiers who died during World War II.Read more… The newly elected prime minister reaches out to the public in a blog post about his first 30 days in office.Read more… Newborns whose mothers are unable to breastfeed are given stored breast milk to protect them from potentially life-threatening infection.Read more… In the final stage of a long decline, Hindustan Motors announced in May that it would suspend production of the Ambassador, a car that was once synonymous with style and status.Read more… This report on India from the journalists of The New York Times and a pool of talented writers in India and beyond provides unbiased, authoritative reporting on the country and its place in the world. India Ink also strives to be a virtual meeting point for discussion of this complex, fast-changing democracy – its politics, economy, culture and everyday life. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Science   The Lure of Forbidden Food Sign Up for the Running Email. Advertisement  Tara Parker-Pope on living well.  How hard will your child work for food? In an experiment, researchers at Pennsylvania State University gave preschool children the opportunity to “work” for a food reward. All the child had to do was click a computer mouse four times to earn a cinnamon-flavored graham cracker. Are you searching for a new vegetarian or vegan recipe? Try our new Eat Well Recipe Finder, which offers hundreds of healthful soups, sides, main courses, salads and desserts. But earning additional treats required progressively more effort. A second treat required eight clicks. Then 16. Then 32. Some children were satisfied after one cracker, while others kept clicking for a few additional crackers. Most of the preschoolers were done after about 15 minutes, but some children stayed with it, accumulating as many as 2,000 clicks before the researchers ended the task after 30 minutes. Children who are highly motivated by food — researchers have called them “reactive eaters” — are of particular interest to childhood health experts. Were they born this way? Or do parents create reactive eaters by imposing too many food rules and imposing restrictive eating practices at home? The answer is probably a little bit of both. Genetics and biology play a role in the foods we like and the amounts we tend to eat. At the same time, studies show that children who grow up in homes with restrictive food rules, where a parent is constantly dieting or desirable foods are forbidden or placed out of reach, often develop stronger reactions to food and want more of it when the opportunity presents itself. In the Penn State experiments, the same preschoolers who worked for food were later offered two types of graham crackers (Scooby-Doo or SpongeBob SquarePants) during their snack time. On five occasions, one type of graham cracker treat was freely available, while the other was placed in a glass bowl with a lid and put off limits. The restricted snacks were available for only five minutes of snack time. Not surprisingly, the graham crackers that were off limits were enticing to all the preschoolers. But the children who had worked hardest in the clicking task — the “reactive” ones — also had the strongest response to the forbidden food. They showed more interest in the off-limit snacks, and once they were available, took more and ate more than the children who had been less interested in clicking for food during the first experiment. “The message is that restriction is counterproductive — it just doesn’t work very well,” said Brandi Rollins, a Penn State postdoctoral researcher and lead author of the study, which was published in February in the journal Appetite. “Restriction just increases a child’s focus and intake of the food that the parent is trying to restrict.” Leann Birch, senior author of the Penn State studies and now food and nutrition professor at the University of Georgia, said additional research has shown that parents who impose highly restrictive food rules, such as putting desirable foods out of reach, tend to have children who are the most reactive to food in the laboratory. “It’s hard to talk cause-and-effect,” said Dr. Birch. “The parents are responding to kids’ reactivity, and the child is reacting to the parenting and to a general genetic predisposition. The only way to break the cycle is to try to get the parents to respond differently.” While restrictive feeding practices can backfire, that doesn’t mean children should have unfettered access to all foods. Instead, parents should be aware that tight control over food can set off overeating in some children. The solution is to control the quality of the food in the home. Don’t buy soda, candy and chips and place them off limits on the top shelf of the pantry. Stock the house with healthful foods, and then allow children access and a reasonable amount of control over what they eat. At snack time, for instance, give them a choice between an apple or orange or vegetables with different dips. The primary food rule should be “a high quality diet for all,” said Dr. David Ludwig, director of the New Balance Foundation Obesity Prevention Center at Boston Children’s Hospital. Parents should not have different rules for themselves, or allow a thin child to eat junk food freely and restrict a sibling with a weight issue. Parents typically don’t have to worry about an overweight child overeating when they are serving high-quality unprocessed foods. For instance, it’s almost impossible to binge on apples. But process the apple into applesauce or juice, and it becomes a junk food that is easy to overeat. Occasional treats outside the home are fine. “Take the kid out for ice cream once or twice a week, but don’t keep it in the house,” Dr. Birch said. Dr. Ludwig noted that with young children, parents needed to set more limits. But adolescents should be given more freedom to eat. “I don’t like the concept of telling a hungry child you can’t eat,” said Dr. Ludwig. “Ultimately, we want children to gain better connection to their inner satiety cues. So if their body is telling them they are hungry, don’t ignore that — just pay close attention to the quality of the foods that are offered.” Do you have a health question? Submit your question to Ask Well. A version of this article appears in print on 04/22/2014, on page D6 of the NewYork edition with the headline: The Lure of Forbidden Food. Your health questions answered by Times journalists and experts. Your Questions | All » Get Well's Running email for practical tips, expert advice, exclusive content and a bit of motivation delivered to your inbox every week to help you on your running journey. Coming soon. How much do you know about the amazing things that go on in your gut? Take our quiz to find out about the creepy, crawly critters living in your home. What surface is the most friendly to the flu virus? Where’s the best place to stand when you’re talking to a sick person? How does sleep affect health, relationships and well-being? The “Reading the Mind in the Eyes Test” measures ability to understand others’ emotional states. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   Oh, the Stories Wrigley Field Could Tell. Advertisement Advertisement By LYNN ZINSERAPRIL 21, 2014 Despite the team’s disappointing record, the century-old home of the Chicago Cubs continues to draw fans. When the ballpark that became Wrigley Field opened in Chicago in 1914, it soon hinted at the checkered baseball history made there in the next 100 years. The owner was Charles Weeghman, who quickly ran into trouble in his primary business, running lunch counters. His team, the Chicago Whales of the Federal League, folded along with the league after the 1915 season. So Weeghman purchased the Cubs from the Taft family of Cincinnati and moved them to the two-year-old park. He then began selling his shares of the Cubs to William Wrigley, and an inauspicious century of baseball continued. The stadium, which took its new owner’s name in 1926, has withstood time and bad baseball to reach the 100th anniversary of its opening on Wednesday. It houses a team that has the longest championship drought in North American professional team sports. After winning the World Series in 1907 and 1908, the Cubs went 0 for the next 105 years. They lost seven World Series, collapsed in 1969 and endured the Bartman incident in 2003 along the way. (Wrigley Field fared much better from 1921 to 1970, when it was home to the team that became the Chicago Bears, who won eight pro football championships there.) But the ballpark itself became an icon. Its ivy-covered outfield walls, a scoreboard that has been operated manually since it was built in 1937, the rooftop seats across the street and the hangdog pessimism of the perpetually disappointed but loyal fans have all become a part of the charm that fills the ballpark no matter how badly the Cubs perform. Wrigley’s profile has been raised by events real and imagined, or some mix of the two. It has hosted a circus, a rodeo, a pro hockey game and even a ski jumping competition in 1944. It has been a co-star in movies, most notably “Ferris Bueller’s Day Off.” Advertisement The mobster Al Capone had front-row seats in the 1930s. Babe Ruth’s famous, if unsubstantiated, called shot happened there in the 1932 World Series. Lou Gehrig, as a 17-year-old high school player, was said to have hit a ball out of Wrigley and onto Sheffield Avenue. The second-oldest stadium in the majors after Fenway Park in Boston, Wrigley Field has a capacity of only 41,160, but its legend remains larger than life. A picture in an earlier version of a slide show with this article was published in error. The photograph, of two players with a bear cub mascot, showed Chicago’s West Side Grounds in 1914, not Weeghman Park in 1916. An article in some editions last Sunday about the 100th anniversary of Wrigley Field described incorrectly part of the history of the stadium’s main tenant, the Chicago Cubs. In 1916, Charles Weeghman bought the Chicago Cubs from Cincinnati ownership; he did not buy the “Cincinnati Cubs.” Go to Home Page »
Travel   Planning a Trip That’s Socially Acceptable. Advertisement Two new travel apps are harnessing the power of Facebook to help friends spend some time together. For those with a bit of flexibility and both time and money, TripCommon, a travel software company, recently completed beta testing for Hitlist, which works as a travel agent of sorts, monitoring fares between a home airport and a user’s favored destinations. When those fares drop in price, the app sends an alert, deeming flights “good,” “great” or “spectacular,” depending on how they measure up to the lowest fares of the previous season. If the price is right, users are directed to Skyscanner.com, a travel search website, to make a purchase. Following the lead of its parent company, which favors social networking technology, the app also uses Facebook to locate the home airports of “friends,” for which fare alerts can also be requested. If also in the Hitlist network, friends can view one another’s destination wish lists or current bookings or locate friends living in a potential destination. TripCommon plans to soon expand Hitlist to other social networks, like LinkedIn, said Gillian Morris, the company’s chief executive. While other search engines are great for working within specific parameters, she said, the goal of Hitlist is to help leisure travelers who want to register their intent and then sit back and let the app do the work for them. Momondo, the travel search website, recently released its own social-network-focused app, which also uses Facebook to assist with travel planning. A “Friend Compass” feature on the app displays a virtual compass of the user’s Facebook friends, where they live and an estimated cost to fly to each. Search parameters can be narrowed to find people nationally, regionally or globally. And a “City View” option will display a wheel of general destinations worldwide, along with estimated fares to each. Hitlist and Momondo are available on iOS and Android devices. In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
U.S.   Running the Marathon. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Video Running the Marathon By Erica Berenstein | Apr. 21, 2014 | 0:43 John Eligon of The Times at the starting line of the Boston Marathon on Monday morning. Show More PlaylistUp Next in Video Next → Op-Docs: Season 5 9:23 I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked   Video1:08 Hitting all the Right Notes Op-Docs: Season 5 13:33 Manufacturing China’s Future Op-Docs: Season 5 6:05 Fashion vs. Art   Video0:56 Excerpt: ‘The Father’   Video0:33 Excerpt: ‘Exit Strategy’ Op-Docs: Season 5 7:19 A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race   Video1:58 Excerpt: ‘Antlia Pneumatica’   News Clips: Europe1:20 Officials React to Panama Papers   News Clips: Europe3:47 Mossack Fonseca on Data Leak © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Business   NASA Vehicle. Advertisement By David J. Kahn Apr 23, 2014 The New York Times Crossword is available through subscription only. WEDNESDAY’S PUZZLE — Crossword-puzzle constructing, in my opinion, is like a microcosm of the larger workforce. We all have jobs: Some of us are Monday constructors. Some of us go for the big real estate and build the large Sunday puzzles. Some of us hoist the triple stacks. I like to think of the Saturday constructors as the executioners. David J. Kahn is our historian. He specializes in the tribute puzzles, and today’s is a tribute to the MERCURY SEVEN, or the NASA astronauts who manned the spaceflights from May 1961 to May 1963. Fifty-five years ago, in April 1959, the seven men in today’s puzzle (highlighted by their first names in the clues) were selected to represent America in the infamous SPACE RACE with the Soviet Union. Not only were all seven highly skilled test pilots who were about to test the boundaries of space travel and human endurance, but the mission itself was seen as a challenge to the “communist threat,” and so the MERCURY SEVEN became American heroes to those watching from home. I hit a couple of speed bumps in today’s solve; I already had SCHIRRA at 1 Across, so I thought that 7 Down might be the variant AEON for “A really long time.” That turned out to be AGES, and I confidently dropped in SPATIAL for “Kind of perception” at 24 Down. That turned out to be SENSORY, which I figured out when I realized that there is no river in Hesse called the PDER, no matter how bad my German pronunciation might be. I was temporarily flummoxed as to how “Sites for kites” could be NESTS, unless the kites somehow got tangled up in them, but then one brain cell sitting at the back raised his hand and volunteered as to how we had once heard that there was a type of bird called the kite. Clue(s) of the Day for me were “It’s a crock” for OLLA and “School desk drawer” for DOODLER. Let’s check in with Mr. Kahn: The idea for the puzzle came last year after Scott Carpenter died and I started reading a little about the history of the Mercury Seven. I learned that John Glenn is the last living astronaut from this group and that Deke Slayton was the only one of the group who didn’t actually fly a Mercury mission. It was clear they were all true heroes at a time when space technology was far from what it is now. The goal originally was to symmetrically include all seven astronauts in the grid plus MERCURY SEVEN. To do this, I needed to add SPACE RACE and ROCKET, but I think the extra theme answers make it a better puzzle. The excellent 1983 movie “The Right Stuff”, which was based on Tom Wolfe’s book, makes clear the huge risks these men were taking. Thanks, Mr. Kahn. The natural response to a puzzle like this would be to post a video of David Bowie’s “Space Oddity,” but why stop there? In this age of the Internet, surely there must be something even better than that. Ladles and gentlemints, Commander Chris Hadfield sings “Space Oddity” with the help of Mario and Fafa, the stars of the Glove and Boots YouTube channel. Your thoughts? Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. David Kahn puts us through the wringer.Read more… Emily Cox and Henry Rathvon offer us a challenging cryptic crossword puzzle.Read more… A place for solvers to discuss and ask questions about the “A Little Variety” suite of puzzles.Read more… Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Food   Five Great New York Breads. Advertisement Advertisement By THE NEW YORK TIMES APRIL 22, 2014 Scores of New York City bakeries offer bread with nuanced flavors and crackling crusts. The Dining section tasted 20 assorted loaves from bakeries that opened within the last three years to find five you should put on your table. The bakery arm of Andrew Tarlow’s Brooklyn restaurant empire (Reynard, Roman’s, Marlow & Sons, Diner, Achilles Heel) produces this sourdough, which had a delicate crust, good sour flavor and, in the words of one taster, “nice negative space” within the loaf. It can be purchased at Marlow & Daughters, the butcher shop and grocery in Williamsburg, among other locations. $6; 95 Broadway, (Berry Street), Brooklyn, 718-388-5700, shewolfbakery.com. The country loaf at Lafayette, Andrew Carmellini’s French restaurant and bakery, was praised unanimously by the tasting panel. The crust was tangy, the interior fluffy but substantial. One taster admired the “beautiful air pockets.” $8.50; 380 Lafayette Street, (Great Jones Street), 212-533-3000, lafayetteny.com. This focaccia, sold in the market at the front of the restaurant, looks more like a sandwich loaf than a puffy flatbread. (In fact, it is the same dough Il Buco uses for its flatter focaccia; it is just shaped differently.) Large air pockets made for an ethereal, fluffy, even slightly creamy interior. “It could just float away,” one taster said. $3.50; 53 Great Jones Street, (Bowery), 212-837-2622, ilbucovineria.com. As moist and chewy as ciabatta should be, this loaf from this restaurant and bakery in Gowanus, Brooklyn, where Peter Endriss is the head baker, was “sour in a lovely way,” said one taster. $5; 285 Third Avenue, (Carroll Street), Brooklyn, 718-576-3360, runnerandstone.com. There were a few very good baguettes in this tasting (Épicerie Boulud made another that was praised), but this classic rendition from Runner & Stone was the highest rated of the bunch, though one taster found it a bit dry. In her notes, though, another taster simply wrote “perfect baguette.” $2.50; 285 Third Avenue, (Carroll Street), Brooklyn, 718-576-3360, runnerandstone.com. Photography by Tony Cenicola/The New York Times
Foreign   Image of the Day: April 22. Advertisement   India’s national elections began April 7 and will continue on nine separate dates until May 12, with results expected to be announced on May 16. The vote is the world’s largest, with 814 million eligible voters set to choose 543 members of the lower house of Parliament. The other two seats will be appointed by the president. This election is widely considered to be India’s most consequential since 1977. India Ink will be moving to the World page of The New York Times. Read more… A memorial ceremony at the Imphal War Cemetery in Manipur to honor the soldiers who died during World War II.Read more… The newly elected prime minister reaches out to the public in a blog post about his first 30 days in office.Read more… Newborns whose mothers are unable to breastfeed are given stored breast milk to protect them from potentially life-threatening infection.Read more… In the final stage of a long decline, Hindustan Motors announced in May that it would suspend production of the Ambassador, a car that was once synonymous with style and status.Read more… This report on India from the journalists of The New York Times and a pool of talented writers in India and beyond provides unbiased, authoritative reporting on the country and its place in the world. India Ink also strives to be a virtual meeting point for discussion of this complex, fast-changing democracy – its politics, economy, culture and everyday life. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Science   Fighting Words Are Rarer Among British Doctors. Advertisement Is a journey better than a battle? We talked here recently about the bellicose expressions often used in discussing the end of life — the well-intended encouragement to “keep fighting,” to declare someone a “fighter,” to never “give up.” And then, when someone dies, to describe him or her as having “lost the battle” with a disease. That post led me, via Twitter, to researchers at Lancaster University in England, who have been analyzing the actual language patients, caregivers and health care professionals use to describe responses to disease. The Metaphor in End of Life Care Project — developed by linguists, a palliative care specialist and a computer scientist — has used specially developed software to comb through about 1.5 million words, gathered from interviews and from posts on health-related websites based in Britain. People working in health care there have been discussing military imagery for a decade, said Elena Semino, head of linguistics at the university. “There’s a lot of awareness that battle metaphors can be very harmful to patients,” she told me. “Professionals are conscious of the problems, and they’re advised not to use them.” Instead, British public health leaders and medical practitioners are more apt to talk about the end of life as a “journey” instead of a war, with “pathways” and “steps” instead of fights and weapons.  A 130-page report from the British government (PDF) on cancer treatment, published a few years ago, was almost devoid of fighting words, for instance. Though it occasionally talked about “tackling” some aspect of cancer, it was more likely to talk about “progress.” On websites for cancer organizations in the United States, like Susan G. Komen and the American Cancer Society, on the other hand, I found frequent references to battles. “The fight metaphor assumes an opponent,” Dr. Semino said. “Fighting has connotations of violence and competitiveness. The goal is to win, and if you don’t succeed, you can feel like a failure.” A journey, she noted, doesn’t involve an enemy; it suggests sojourners passing various milestones. Still, the Lancaster researchers found plenty of fight metaphors in their analyses: Among patients and caregivers, about one or two words in every thousand were violence metaphors. Health care professionals used them less often, perhaps reflecting their continuing discussion of appropriate language, and in somewhat different ways. How you speak about your own health and the decisions you make about it are highly individual, of course. It may be easier to accept the inevitable end of a “journey” if you’re very old and, like most older adults, have multiple illnesses. Indeed, British lawmakers are currently debating whether to tell pensioners how long they can expect to live, a frank discussion hard to imagine in the United States. The continuing use of battle imagery in the Lancaster study could be associated with younger age. The researchers don’t know the ages of the people posting anonymously on websites, the source of a majority of those 1.5 million words, but since younger adults remain more likely to use the Internet, that’s a reasonable assumption. (Personally, I’m not fond of either battling or journeying and prefer “dying,” when that’s what’s happening, but that’s probably a minority opinion.) Moreover, the researchers have found, “some people use fight metaphors in what can only be described as an empowering way,” Dr. Semino said. They talk about fighting with a sense of pride and purpose. So when it comes to fight metaphors at the end of life, Dr. Semino said, “our view is, that shouldn’t be censored, but its limitations should be recognized.” She added that “metaphors are resources, tools, ways to make sense of your experience.” Some serve better than others, but we each get to pick our own. Paula Span is the author of “When the Time Comes: Families With Aging Parents Share Their Struggles and Solutions.” The blog is ending, but our coverage of caregiving and aging is not. The New Old Age will run as a twice-monthly column by Paula Span on nytimes.com and frequently in Science Times. Read more… At many nursing homes and assisted living places, a resident’s passing may be hardly noted.Read more… Circumstances had changed, and all these documents needed to change, too. Read more… Lifestyle modification prevents Type 2 diabetes even more effectively in the elderly than in middle-aged patients.Read more… Julianne Moore gives a wonderful performance in “Still Alice,” but the film skirts the truth about dementia.Read more… Thanks to the marvels of medical science, our parents are living longer than ever before. Most will spend years dependent on others for the most basic needs. That burden falls to their baby boomer children. The New Old Age blog explored this unprecedented intergenerational challenge. Paula Span will continue to write New Old Age columns twice monthly at nytimes.com/health and the conversation will continue on Twitter (@paula_span) and Facebook. A few medical institutions have opened their doors to patients’ own dogs and cats. Scheduling and medication errors plague patients with Parkinson's. Dementia doesn't respect public stature. Is there life after caregiving, and if so what it is like? Comprehensive reference and special reports about diseases, conditions, tests, injuries and surgeries. Useful information, tools, and links to organizations around the Web. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   Keyshawn Johnson Arrested. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content Skip to navigation View mobile version The New York Times Pro Football|Keyshawn Johnson Arrested Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go http://nyti.ms/1rh1NeM Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Supported by Pro Football | Sports Briefing Keyshawn Johnson Arrested By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 22, 2014 Continue reading the main story Share This Page Continue reading the main story The former N.F.L. receiver Keyshawn Johnson was arrested after a report of a domestic dispute, the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department said. Johnson was charged with misdemeanor domestic battery, the department said. Johnson, an ESPN commentator and analyst, posted bond and was released. A call to his agent was not immediately returned. A version of this brief appears in print on April 22, 2014, on page B12 of the New York edition with the headline: Keyshawn Johnson Arrested. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Continue reading the main story What's Next Loading... Go to Home Page » Site Index The New York Times Site Index Navigation News World U.S. Politics N.Y. Business Tech Science Health Sports Education Obituaries Today's Paper Corrections Opinion Today's Opinion Op-Ed Columnists Editorials Contributing Writers Op-Ed Contributors Opinionator Letters Sunday Review Taking Note Room for Debate Public Editor Video: Opinion Arts Today's Arts Art & Design ArtsBeat Books Dance Movies Music N.Y.C. Events Guide Television Theater Video: Arts Living Automobiles Crossword Food Education Fashion & Style Health Jobs Magazine N.Y.C. Events Guide Real Estate T Magazine Travel Weddings & Celebrations Listings & More Classifieds Tools & Services Times Topics Public Editor N.Y.C. Events Guide Blogs Multimedia Photography Video NYT Store Times Journeys Subscribe Manage My Account Subscribe Subscribe Times Insider Home Delivery Digital Subscriptions NYT Opinion Crossword Email Newsletters Alerts Gift Subscriptions Corporate Subscriptions Education Rate Mobile Applications Replica Edition International New York Times Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Technology   Analysis of Airbnb Listings. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content The New York Times Technology|Analysis of Airbnb Listings Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go http://nyti.ms/1i9ehWt Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Technology Analysis of Airbnb Listings In an affidavit filed in New York State Supreme Court, the director of research for the state attorney general noted that of the more than 19,500 listings on Airbnb in New York at the end of January, the majority were for an entire apartment. APRIL 21, 2014 Related Multimedia Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Travel   Orbitz Adds to Third-Party Booking Credit Card Options. Advertisement And then there were Orbucks. Orbitz became the latest third-party booking site to offer its customers a credit card, it announced on Tuesday. With the introduction of its branded Visa card, the company joins a growing field that includes a Travelocity-branded American Express card, which rewards its users in mere points, and an Expedia Citi card, which offers ThankYou points but nothing that sounds like its own currency. You won’t need to whip out a converter, or even a complicated table, to figure out your rewards, Orbitz officials said in a recent conference call announcing the card: One Orbuck equals one dollar, which you can redeem for use on the trip you are currently booking (or one you book later) without regard for blackout dates or peak travel periods or myriad obstacles that seem to crop up with reward travel. (The company introduced the Orbuck as part of its loyalty program last year.) Earning an Orbuck is less straightforward, however. You get 3 percent of a hotel stay back in Orbucks when booking on desktop, 5 percent on mobile, just 1 percent for flights, etc., etc. Still, Orbitz is departing from third-party tradition by simply giving cold, hard cash back for every dollar spent. Score one for the nonpoints nerds among us. In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
U.S.   Obama Addresses Oso, Wash.. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Video Obama Addresses Oso, Wash. Apr. 23, 2014 | 0:34 President Obama spoke to first responders in Oso, Wash. on Tuesday. Show More PlaylistUp Next in Video Next → Op-Docs: Season 5 9:23 I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked   Video1:08 Hitting all the Right Notes Op-Docs: Season 5 13:33 Manufacturing China’s Future Op-Docs: Season 5 6:05 Fashion vs. Art   Video0:56 Excerpt: ‘The Father’   Video0:33 Excerpt: ‘Exit Strategy’ Op-Docs: Season 5 7:19 A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race   Video1:58 Excerpt: ‘Antlia Pneumatica’   News Clips: Europe1:20 Officials React to Panama Papers   News Clips: Europe3:47 Mossack Fonseca on Data Leak © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Business   On the Lookout. Advertisement By Stanley Newman Apr 24, 2014 The New York Times Crossword is available through subscription only. THURSDAY’S PUZZLE — Stanley Newman is the editor of the nationally syndicated Newsday Crossword and the author/editor of more than 150 books. When last we saw him here in The New York Times, he was making us laugh with a quip theme inspired by his son Marc, and he’s back today with a theme that resides inside the grid. I don’t know about you, but one of the first things my eye notices when I am faced with a blank puzzle are the clues. They look pretty dense today, don’t they? And not a single fill-in-the-blank to help us gain a toehold. What’s going on here? It’s Thursday, so Mr. Newman and Will Shortz may be up to something. We’ll have to take a closer look. I get my start at 24 Across, where the three-letter answer to the clue “Gibson or Brooks” is, of course, MEL. Whew. O.K., we’re in. Let’s dig deeper. “Singer Simon” breaks open the southwest with CARLY. We know that Che Guevara was famous for wearing a BERET, at least in crossword puzzles. “Grass shack dances,” a peculiar-sounding clue for HULAS, raises my antenna. There’s something up with these clues. My brain cells huddle and discuss the sound of the clues. Do you say them in your head as you solve, as I do? Moving your lips is acceptable too. Silent lip moving is the key here, because you don’t want to wind up yelling “That’s fine with me!” (62 Across) out loud in a crowded restaurant because you’re sitting and solving by yourself with your headphones on and can’t hear yourself. Not that I would know. Now I have enough of the puzzle filled in to start figuring out this theme Mr. Newman has left us to decipher. I fill in Part 1 and Part 2, and Part 3 fills itself in (Not literally. I might talk to myself in restaurants, but I’m still in charge of my pen.) EVERY ONE OF THE / CLUES HAS EXACTLY / FOUR SYLLABLES. No wonder they sounded odd. And I mean that in a good way, Mr. Newman. There were a few speed bumps in this solve. I had YIKES instead of YIPES at 28 Across, and GOWN instead of GARB at 18 Across, but despite these, I felt this was a very smooth solve for a hidden theme Thursday puzzle. “What takes a stand?” for T-BALL is Clue of the Day for me, and reminds me of my favorite crossword puzzle clue ever, also by Mr. Newman: “It brings out the child in you” is the best clue I’ve ever seen for the word LABOR. From the Things I Learned Today Department: EL AL means “skyward” and the top layer of those scratch cards are made of LATEX. I also never thought of the HUSTLE as a line dance, but it is if you’re doing The Continental Walk. A theme like this naturally imposes some constraints on the constructor. Mr. Newman’s fill is excellent throughout (I really didn’t mind the abbreviations at the bottom that he discusses below), and I admire him for getting around the FEDEX/EXACTLY crossing in such an elegant way. Let’s hear from Mr. Newman: Inspiration this time began with recalling a puzzle I published more than 20 years ago, by the late, immensely talented constructor Elizabeth Wilkinson. All of the clues in her “T PARTY” 15×15 started with the letter T, and there were multiple T-shaped black square patterns. That puzzle got me thinking about clue-restriction themes that would be somewhat more opaque. After coming up with the fixed-syllable idea, I offered it to Will with his choice of all three-syllable or all four-syllable clues, without having a specific day of the week in mind for it. Will accepted it for a Thursday (which he continues to be non-rebus short of), and chose four syllables. The fixed-length message didn’t leave a lot of flexibility for its placement in the grid. The crucial thing I wanted to take care of first was the Down answer for the X in EXACTLY. FEDEX looked good, and I placed the black squares nearby in such a way as to have as many options for the EDE crossing letters of FEDEX as possible. Then I placed the rest of the black squares, trying to have as low an answer count as possible. I briefly flirted with a 72-answer grid, but couldn’t get that to work without answer compromises, so I reworked the grid slightly to the 74 answers finally used. There were two additional subtle aspects to filling in the grid. First, the puzzle couldn’t have any partials requiring fill-in-the-blank clues, — how exactly does one pronounce underscores? Having abbreviated clues/answers seemed more of an inelegance than a problem to me, since one does pronounce many common abbreviations as if they were the spelled-out words. Still, I had wanted to avoid abbreviations entirely, and nearly did so — there’s only AGCY in the answers and “yr.” and “Mrs.” in the clues. Writing the 74 four-syllable clues turned out to be rather slow going, to come out to my satisfaction. Cluing “tough” for a Thursday was extra-tough with this added restriction. Also important to me was to avoid any clues that seemed unnatural or “forced,” wanting to keep the theme a surprise for as long as possible. One more special wrinkle I had to watch out for: avoiding words with multiple common syllabifications. That’s why my first thought of “Holy mackerel!” for YIPES wouldn’t have worked. Still, the harder clues turned out with all the variety and difficulty that I strive for with my less-restrictive tougher crosswords. Sometimes, that difficulty comes from a lesser-known fact about a well-known thing (like LATEX used for the scratch-off layer of lottery tickets), sometimes from multiple possible answers (at least four five-letter ones for “Colleague of Kirk”), and sometimes forcing you to think about things you know in new ways (like “Hive, in effect” for NEST). I’m pleased to say Will felt the need to totally redo only a dozen or so of my clues. I hope I succeeded in surprising and pleasing you with this quirky theme. That you did, Mr. Newman. And nice to see you back here in The New York Times. Your thoughts? Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. David Kahn puts us through the wringer.Read more… Emily Cox and Henry Rathvon offer us a challenging cryptic crossword puzzle.Read more… A place for solvers to discuss and ask questions about the “A Little Variety” suite of puzzles.Read more… Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   What Female Voters Say About Women’s Safety in Mumbai. Advertisement   News and analysis on the world’s largest election. As Mumbai’s usually apathetic citizens poured into the streets in support of stronger measures to protect women, political parties condemned the incident and placed blame. While Milind Deora, a Congress party member of Parliament, promoted self-defense classes for women, the Shiv Sena, a right-wing Hindu nationalist party in Maharashtra, distributed 2,500 knives to women. In the national elections for the Lok Sabha, or lower house of Parliament, women’s safety has figured more prominently in the manifestos of Indian political parties than in previous elections. In Mumbai, ads for the governing Indian National Congress promote its measure to improve women’s safety, and the prime ministerial candidate for the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party, Narendra Modi, on Sunday accused the Congress party of failing to protect women. India Ink asked female voters in Mumbai, which goes to the polls Thursday, about their thoughts on women’s safety in the city and what they expected from politicians on this issue.  Name: Shabina Sheikh Age: 32 Occupation: Homemaker “I don’t venture out much, so I feel safe. I have a young daughter who is 12 and attends school, and I worry about her all the time. I just wish that she could roam around the city as she pleases without any trouble. I am always stressed until she comes home every day. Whenever there is an incident, people say the girl should not have been out so late or that she was wearing something indecent, but they never tell the boys that they should not be out so late or harass girls. Politicians should understand why these things are happening and control these incidents. Whenever a rape makes the headlines, then politicians say, ‘We will make a change,’ but when people forget about it and journalists stop asking about it, then they also forget to do anything.” Name: Hansa Natu Kharwa Age: 45 Occupation: Vegetable seller “I think that women are mostly safe in Mumbai, but when you are in secluded areas, then you don’t feel safe. Women like us who work should feel that it is O.K. to be outside the house in the city. Women also have to make a living and be out and about in the city, but if you cannot be outside the house and be secure, then how can you work to fill your stomach? I think that politicians can do a lot if they want to, but they only think of these issues at the time of elections. Things have not become much safer in Mumbai.” Name: Usha Eknath Dhanu Age: 50 Occupation: Domestic worker, washes dishes in people’s homes “I hear about these gang rapes and cases of women being attacked on television and in the papers, but I have never had any incident, so I feel secure. I think the government needs to do more for women’s safety. If a woman is harassed, then the police need to pay attention, and there should be more women in the police force. If you go to the police station to complain that someone is harassing you, they don’t think it is a big deal. I think the Congress party does work for women; they give widows’ pension, they give water in the taps, and they make roads. They tell women, ‘You walk ahead, and we will follow you.’ They support us.” Name: Tinaz Mistry Age: 24 Occupation: Marketing in a mutual fund company in Mumbai “I definitely feel safer in Mumbai than I would in a lot of other parts of the country. I can get out of my house late at night and drive on the streets and it’s O.K.; I don’t feel unsafe or like someone is trying to follow me or harass me in any way. I think the government can do a lot to improve the situation. Law and order should be stricter, the judiciary has to function better, there should be fast-track courts, and the government needs to ensure that every rapist is hanged. The government is talking about women’s safety here and there, but they are not giving it the paramount importance that it deserves. But I think most importantly the mindset of people needs to change, the apathy stems from us as individuals — not only men but even women. We need to make sure that our politicians don’t have criminal records.” Name: Deepti Kadam Age: 28 Occupation: Office administration at Puretech Internet, a digital marketing, web design and development company Quote: “I don’t always feel safe in Mumbai. When you are walking in a crowded area or traveling by train, men are always giving you strange looks, teasing women, pushing against you. There should be more policemen in trains. When I travel at night after 8 p.m., there are no policemen around in the train. I don’t think politicians have done anything for women’s safety in Mumbai. Seeing that politicians like Abu Azmi say that women should also get punished in rape cases, I feel like they first need to change their mentality, and then they should see what the reality on the ground is. If the prime minister is changed, then I think there should be some change.” Name: Sai Patekar Age: 18 Occupation: Student at Ramnarain Ruia College “Even though Mumbai is supposed to be a safe city for women, I don’t always feel safe. If I am wearing a kurta, I feel safe — I don’t know why — but when I am wearing shorts, the way people stare at you, you feel unsafe.  I don’t think politicians have done much for women’s safety in Mumbai. I don’t think the government can do much about women’s safety. Even women in the police are being raped, so what can the police do? It’s the people’s mentality that creates all these issues. I think education matters a lot. There is so much illiteracy in Mumbai. I think if people are educated from birth, things will change.” India’s national elections began April 7 and will continue on nine separate dates until May 12, with results expected to be announced on May 16. The vote is the world’s largest, with 814 million eligible voters set to choose 543 members of the lower house of Parliament. The other two seats will be appointed by the president. This election is widely considered to be India’s most consequential since 1977. India Ink will be moving to the World page of The New York Times. Read more… A memorial ceremony at the Imphal War Cemetery in Manipur to honor the soldiers who died during World War II.Read more… The newly elected prime minister reaches out to the public in a blog post about his first 30 days in office.Read more… Newborns whose mothers are unable to breastfeed are given stored breast milk to protect them from potentially life-threatening infection.Read more… In the final stage of a long decline, Hindustan Motors announced in May that it would suspend production of the Ambassador, a car that was once synonymous with style and status.Read more… This report on India from the journalists of The New York Times and a pool of talented writers in India and beyond provides unbiased, authoritative reporting on the country and its place in the world. India Ink also strives to be a virtual meeting point for discussion of this complex, fast-changing democracy – its politics, economy, culture and everyday life. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Movies   Clip: ‘Locke’. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Video Clip: ‘Locke’ By A24 | Apr. 23, 2014 | 1:11 A scene from the film featuring Tom Hardy. Show More PlaylistUp Next in Video Next → Op-Docs: Season 5 9:23 I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked   Video1:08 Hitting all the Right Notes Op-Docs: Season 5 13:33 Manufacturing China’s Future Op-Docs: Season 5 6:05 Fashion vs. Art   Video0:56 Excerpt: ‘The Father’   Video0:33 Excerpt: ‘Exit Strategy’ Op-Docs: Season 5 7:19 A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race   Video1:58 Excerpt: ‘Antlia Pneumatica’   News Clips: Europe1:20 Officials React to Panama Papers   News Clips: Europe3:47 Mossack Fonseca on Data Leak © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Science   Aspirin Benefits Some at Risk for Colon Cancer Sign Up for the Running Email. Advertisement Many studies have found that regular aspirin use reduces the risk for colon cancer. Now scientists have found that aspirin may benefit some people far more than others. Aspirin apparently exerts a protective effect only in people with high levels of an enzyme called 15-PGDH, which is found in the gut’s lining. Researchers tracked aspirin use among 127,865 participants in two large national health surveys, and found 270 cancer cases in which 15-PGDH levels were tracked. The study appears online in Science Translational Medicine. They found that taking two regular-strength tablets a week had no significant effect on the risk for cancer in people with low levels of the enzyme. But in people with high levels, it cut the risk by 50 percent. The risk decreased with higher doses and longer duration of aspirin use. The effect persisted after controlling for many health and behavioral factors, including the use of other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs like ibuprofen (Advil) and naproxen (Aleve). Doctors don’t routinely test for 15-PGDH. But levels can be determined safely and inexpensively by doing an additional biopsy during a colonoscopy, said the senior author, Dr. Andrew T. Chan, an associate professor of medicine at Harvard. “There is a real need to identify who will benefit from aspirin use,” said Dr. Chan, “and not introduce risk” — such as gastrointestinal bleeding — “to people who will not.” Your health questions answered by Times journalists and experts. Your Questions | All » Get Well's Running email for practical tips, expert advice, exclusive content and a bit of motivation delivered to your inbox every week to help you on your running journey. Coming soon. How much do you know about the amazing things that go on in your gut? Take our quiz to find out about the creepy, crawly critters living in your home. What surface is the most friendly to the flu virus? Where’s the best place to stand when you’re talking to a sick person? How does sleep affect health, relationships and well-being? The “Reading the Mind in the Eyes Test” measures ability to understand others’ emotional states. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   Camping by Night, Riding by Day. Channels & Shows Home Search Sports Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Sports Camping by Night, Riding by Day By Teton Gravity Research | Apr. 23, 2014 | 4:56 In order to ride a steep face that received minimal sunlight, Jeremy Jones and Ryland Bell spent an evening nestled on a ledge thousands of feet above their base camp in Alaska’s Fairweather Range. Related: article: Video: Camping by Night, Riding by Day Show More PlaylistUp Next in Sports Next →   The Royal Family1:33 Prince Harry Promotes Invictus Games   Europe0:60 Police Accept Blame for Hillsborough Disaster   Europe0:46 Families Sing After Hillsborough Ruling   Sports1:24 UConn Reflects on Record-Breaking Win   News Clips: Sports2:20 John John Florence Wins ‘the Eddie’   Sports1:51 ‘Human Sacrifice’: Debating Football’s Future   Blood and Sport3:32 Ken Stabler and C.T.E.   Sports5:01 Addicted to a Fantasy   Paris Attacks1:51 French Soccer Team Sings National Anthem   Sports6:27 Drone Racing Dreams © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Travel   Queen’s Day Becomes King’s Day in the Netherlands. Advertisement The Netherlands’ biggest celebration has a new date and name this month, when the former Queen’s Day, held since 1890, becomes King’s Day, or Koningsdag. The change came after last year’s reigning royalty, Queen Beatrix, abdicated her post to her son Willem-Alexander, who now heads the House of Orange. He changed the holiday to his birthdate, April 27 (he turns 47), but because that falls on a Sunday this year, the party was moved  to April 26. What won’t change in this unabashed swelling of Dutch pride, most visible in Amsterdam, are its hallmarks — citywide street sales, open-air concerts and dance parties, family activities, and canals so clogged you could easily boat-hop from side to side. Perhaps you recall the liberal amount of orange garments sported by Dutch athletes and spectators during Olympic speed skating events earlier this year? That was a mere warm-up to King’s Day, where citizens shower themselves in the national hue, often topping their glowing hair with shiny inflatable crowns. For most organizers and partygoers (the city’s 800,000 population nearly doubles), it’s pleasure as usual, though locals have a hard time wrapping their minds, and mouths, around the name change. “The Dutch people just stumble on the words because we’ve had only women on the throne since 1890 — Emma, Wilhelmina, Juliana, Beatrix — and now we have a king,” said Muriel Stibbe, a board member of the friends’ group for Amsterdam’s Vondelpark, the hub for G-rated activities. “As usual, we’ll continue keeping the park for children to do a performance or to sell things, cupcakes or lollipops, maybe toys and clothes they don’t use. And they bring their drums and violins.” Up the street in the Jordaan neighborhood, Daan Steeman, manager of Cafe de Blaffende Vis, is excited to unveil his popular bar’s annual April artwork. “We’ve been decorating the facade of our building during Queen’s Day for the past 18 years, depicting someone from the royal family in a slightly funny way,” he said in an email. “I can’t tell you what this year’s decoration will be, but it definitely has a lot to do with the transition from Queen’s Day to King’s Day.” The big reveal comes on King’s Night, April 25, he said. The next day, the bar, near the crowded Prinsengracht canal, will host three bands on an outside stage. Another group adjusting to the change is the celebration’s vibrant gay contingent, which hosts dance parties on King’s Night and Day. “It did cross my mind that we’ll be losing that little wordplay of Queen’s Day, so we’ll just have to think of something new,” said Hans Verhoeven, owner of Gays & Gadgets gift shop and ambassador for Amsterdam Gay Pride. “It’s very possible that the name contributed to the success of it becoming such a gay-friendly event,” he said. One little beef all the Dutch seem to have with the inaugural King’s Day: Because it falls on a weekend, nobody gets an extra day off work. In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
U.S.   Justice Department on Clemency Program. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos News Clips Justice Department on Clemency Program Apr. 23, 2014 | 0:59 James Cole, a deputy attorney general, announced an initiative that encourages inmates sentenced for drug crimes to apply for clemency. Related: article: Justice Dept. Expands Eligibility for Clemency Show More PlaylistUp Next in News Clips Next →   News Clips1:10 Inside Aleppo Hospital Before Attack   News Clips1:01 Sanders Predicts Contested Convention   News Clips1:06 Trump Blasts Cruz for 'Wasting Time'   News Clips4:02 How Will Obama Spend His Retirement?   U.S. & Politics8:22 Best of Obama's Correspondents' Dinner Speech   News Clips: Asia Pacific0:49 Chinese Temple Employs Robot Monk   News Clips: Asia Pacific0:29 U.S. to Heighten Pressure on North Korea   News Clips0:40 Airstrikes Resume in Syria   News Clips0:54 Merkel Welcomes Obama to Germany   Business0:40 Footage of Man in Cake Dispute © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Business   Puzzle Solver’s Complaint. Advertisement By Joel Fagliano Apr 25, 2014 The New York Times Crossword is available through subscription only. FRIDAY’S PUZZLE — It’s Friday, the beginning of the weekend, and it’s going to be tough to decide whether we want to CHILLAX or CATERWAUL and RAISE HELL. Let’s let constructor Joel Fagliano help us make up our minds. There’s a lot to like in Mr. Fagliano’s grid: Do you prefer the Scrabbly smattering of Xs in the top half of the puzzle, or are you smiling over the plethora of great, crunchy entries, like SEX SCENE, HAVE A GO, HOLOGRAM, JELLO SHOT, RITALIN, BALD SPOT, LEND A HAND, I’M STUCK, YOU’LL SEE and more? Or are you swooning over the “Love letters” Mr. Fagliano left us at 7 Down (XOXOXO)? How about when entries get filled in because you’re focused on the crossings and then you look at IDEM before you look at the clue and wonder if Apple has some out with some sort of virtual political party? No? Just me? Now we have to whittle down our choices for Clue of the Day. My nominees are “Unlocked area?” for BALD SPOT, “Show horse” for MR. ED, and “One who deals with stress well?” for POET. Were any of these your favorites? If you have another, let me know in the comments. Let’s check in with Mr. Fagliano: I always appreciate when the fill in a crossword reflects the personality of the constructor. Whether it’s Brendan Emmett Quigley packing lots of music clues in or Barry Silk with baseball and Philadelphia references, it’s cool to get a sense of a person’s interests through what they put in their puzzles. This is particularly evident in themeless puzzles, where there are no constraints on what you’d like to put in a grid. In this grid, I tried to pack in a lot of fresh fill that reflects the fact that I’m one of the relatively few college-age constructors. Examples of this include 1-, 39-, and 44-Across and 13-, 33-, and 34-Down. But I also put in some stuff that people of all ages will hopefully think is fun fill, like 35- and 40-Across. I think this was a CATERWAUL-worthy puzzle, don’t you? I entered the word CATERWAUL into the YouTube search bar in search of a good music video, and let’s just say that none of the songs that came up seemed to have, well, a melody. It was much safer to go with “Shout” by Tears For Fears and take a trip down memory lane to the 1980s: Your thoughts? Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. David Kahn puts us through the wringer.Read more… Emily Cox and Henry Rathvon offer us a challenging cryptic crossword puzzle.Read more… A place for solvers to discuss and ask questions about the “A Little Variety” suite of puzzles.Read more… Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Foreign   June 4th Museum Set to Open in Hong Kong. Advertisement In April 1989, tens of thousands of young protesters assembled on Tiananmen Square, in the heart of Beijing, demanding greater political freedoms and an end to corruption. The protests ended in bloodshed when tanks and troops were deployed the night of June 3-4 to clear the square. By most estimates, hundreds were killed. The 1989 democracy movement and its suppression remain events that the Communist state has tried to shield from public scrutiny. In Hong Kong, however, a permanent museum will open this weekend. Its organizers hope it will preserve memories of the Tiananmen protests and “continue the fight for democracy in China,” said Lee Cheuk-yan, a legislator and chairman of the Hong Kong Alliance in Support of Patriotic Democratic Movements of China. Housed on the fifth floor of an office building in the popular tourist district of Tsim Sha Tsui, the 800-square-foot June 4th Museum is set to open on Saturday despite the threat of a lawsuit from the building owners’ committee, Mr. Lee said. The committee says that the use of the office unit for exhibition purposes violates the property deed and that an influx of visitors might inundate the two elevators, among other concerns.   ‘‘We have all the legal backup,” Mr. Lee said, “so we’re confident we can face the legal challenge and this museum, a permanent one, will open.’’ The Hong Kong Alliance was founded in May 1989, after martial law was declared in urban Beijing, with the aim of supporting democracy in China. It organizes annual June 4 memorials in Victoria Park and has previously staged temporary exhibitions devoted to the events of 1989. But Mr. Lee says this will be the world’s first permanent museum dedicated to the Tiananmen Square protests. The maze-like museum features walls of texts, photos and videos that trace the uprising from its start shortly after the death on April 15, 1989, of Hu Yaobang, the ousted Communist Party chief, through its crushing on June 4. Displays include a 6-foot-4-inch replica of the Goddess of Democracy, which was erected by students on Tiananmen Square; the story of Ding Zilin, who founded Tiananmen Mothers after her 17-year-old son was killed in the crackdown; and one of the iconic photographs of a young man standing before a row of tanks near the square. Most information about June 4 is censored on the Chinese mainland. Related words and phrases, such as the names of student leaders, are constantly removed from the Internet. Meanwhile, discussion of these events is open and often fervent in Hong Kong, a former British colony that has retained considerable civil liberties since its return to Chinese rule in 1997. The candlelight vigils that the Hong Kong Alliance has held each year since 1989 draw tens of thousands of supporters. ‘‘A lot of mainlanders are forced to delete their memory of June 4,’’ Mr. Lee said. ‘‘What this museum wants to do is to pass it on to the younger generations, the mainland Chinese, so that they will bring the message back to China. By letting them know what actually happened, they will have anger at the Communist Party — that they, in order to preserve their power, could go to the extent of shooting at their own people.’’ “We believe that by knowing, they would go into action,” he said. “And that is what we hope to achieve — that people in China will fight for democracy together with us.” The museum plans to distribute leaflets in areas popular with mainland tourists and to encourage them to buy and take back a USB flash drive with documentation of the massacre to spread the message. ‘‘It’s not a June 4 T-shirt, which you would be banned from taking into China,’’ he said. ‘‘It’s only a USB thumb drive. I don’t think the customs can go through all the luggage to try to find this.’’ On April 11, a Hong Kong legislator, Leung Kwok-hung, was asked by Shanghai customs officers to surrender T-shirts and other items related to the Tiananmen Square movement on an official trip to meet Chinese officials. Mr. Leung, a famed rebel on the city’s Legislative Council also known as “Long Hair,” refused to comply and boarded a flight back to Hong Kong to boycott the meeting. As for the museum’s promotional campaign on Sina Weibo, China’s top microblogging service, Mr. Lee already has some ideas to avoid being censored. ‘‘We don’t have to call it a June 4th museum,” he said. “We can call it a historical museum, a China history museum.” June 4 Memorial Museum 5/F Foo Hoo Centre, 3 Austin Ave. Tsim Sha Tsui, Kowloon, Hong Kong Hours: Monday, Wednesday to Friday: 10:00 – 18:00 Saturday, Sunday and public holidays: 10:00 – 19:00 Entrance fee: 10 Hong Kong dollars Sinosphere, the China blog of The New York Times, delivers intimate, authoritative coverage of the planet's most populous nation and its relationship with the rest of the world. Drawing on timely, engaging dispatches from The Times’ distinguished team of China correspondents, this blog brings readers into the debates and discussions taking place inside a fast-changing country and details the cultural, economic and political developments shaping the lives of 1.3 billion people. Some called on the government to send troops to the Middle East in retaliation to an Islamic State killing, while others cautioned that such a move could invite terrorism at home.Read more… The dissidents had won official recognition as refugees and had been previously detained in China for their activism, Chris Buckley reports.Read more… Human rights advocates listened with a mixture of incredulity and derision to the delegation’s responses on interrogation, Nick Cumming-Bruce reports. Read more… In the Philippines for an Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit, President Obama urged China to halt military activities on the disputed islands, Michael D. Shear reports. Read more… The dead, including women and children, were said to have been involved in a knife attack in September that left 50 people dead at a mine near the Kyrgyzstan border, Javier C. Hernández reports. Read more… Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Home   Japanese Design: Conflict in the Far East. Advertisement Advertisement By RIMA SUQIAPRIL 23, 2014 Japanese furnishings have inspired legions of designers. But while most praise the simplicity of form, Joey Roth, an industrial designer based in Southern California, sees something more. “There’s a weird tension I see in Japanese design throughout history, between stoic simplicity and perfection on one side and this raw, crazed energy on the other,” said Mr. Roth, 30, who is schooled in engineering but has also studied the traditional craft techniques of Japanese wood joinery, high-fired stoneware and metal casting. “The energy is revealed through the experience of living with the product.” Mr. Roth has visited Japan several times and uses Japanese products on a regular basis, and he prefers pieces that aren’t just pleasing to the eye, but also manufactured in a thoughtful way that most people may not notice. At OK, a design shop on Third Street in Los Angeles that carried more Japanese design than he expected, he gravitated to a cast-iron grill pan by Sori Yanagi, who is “the originator of modern Japanese industrial design,” he said. He was also enamored of the stacking stoneware from Hasami. “The sugar pot and mugs have the same diameter,” he said. “And you can use lids from one on another, creating different assemblages, like Legos.” Advertisement At Tortoise General Store, a Venice Beach shop specializing in all things Japanese, he picked out a woven bamboo basket that impressed him with its sculptural qualities and the way it was made. “The fact that the material can bend like that allowed this bowl to exist,” he said. “It’s another cool example of material, manufacturing and design working together.” Online, Mr. Roth pointed out the Porlex coffee mill, an apparently multifunctional device that he uses not for grinding coffee beans, but for pepper. “Peppermills all look the same and are kind of boring,” he said. “But this one is great for my favorite peppercorns.” He also liked the Futagami tape dispenser by Masanori Oji at Analogue Life, a site specializing in contemporary Japanese housewares. “What I love about this, other than the proportions and industrial materiality,” he said, “is the wheel that holds the roll of tape. You can see how the mold pulls apart in the center, you can see the parting line inside each spoke. It’s a beautiful use of that process.” And on the Rikumo site, he was particularly impressed by the tea canister. “I’m really into tea,” he said. “And most tea canisters are made of some kind of metal. The shape of this is amazing: I couldn’t imagine lathing a chunk of wood into that shape and keeping it as well formed and delicate as that one looks.” A version of this article appears in print on April 24, 2014, on page D6 of the New York edition with the headline: Conflict in the Far East. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Movies   Clip: ‘The German Doctor’. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Video Clip: ‘The German Doctor’ By Samuel Goldwyn Films | Apr. 25, 2014 | 1:13 A scene from the film directed by Lucía Puenzo. Show More PlaylistUp Next in Video Next → Op-Docs: Season 5 9:23 I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked   Video1:08 Hitting all the Right Notes Op-Docs: Season 5 13:33 Manufacturing China’s Future Op-Docs: Season 5 6:05 Fashion vs. Art   Video0:56 Excerpt: ‘The Father’   Video0:33 Excerpt: ‘Exit Strategy’ Op-Docs: Season 5 7:19 A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race   Video1:58 Excerpt: ‘Antlia Pneumatica’   News Clips: Europe1:20 Officials React to Panama Papers   News Clips: Europe3:47 Mossack Fonseca on Data Leak © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Science   Living With Cancer: Practicing Loss Sign Up for the Running Email. Advertisement Susan Gubar writes about life with ovarian cancer. At times when I consider my losses, I feel like a loser in the battle against self-pity. Like many diseases, cancer has everything to do with loss: of a breast or a leg, of a chunk of liver or lung, of continence, of mental capacity, of life itself. My losses, like those of most people, vary in scope. The biggest is the loss of physical autonomy. I must rely on all sorts of equipment and medicine to keep me going. Then there is the big loss of my teaching job. Enforced retirement isolates me from the intellectual community that had sustained me throughout my life. The smaller losses of my hair and of not being able to feel my feet sometimes loom larger than they should. But why be a downer? Who wants to wallow? To take my mind off my woes, it is always possible to think of someone worse off. As I child, I was told how lucky I was compared with the starving children in China. Now I mourn violence against women in Congo. Yet it feels meanspirited to buck oneself up with the misery of others, not an attractive option. Neither can I bear to become a Pollyanna, counting the manifold blessings of loving family and friends, of reading near a window overlooking a beech tree, of a cardinal at the bird feeder. I realize that I should subscribe to the idea of abundant recompense, of looking on the bright side, of the glass half full, of the silver lining, but it can elude me. What I need then is something more stringent or even mordant. During those moments I return to Elizabeth Bishop’s poem “One Art.” The key words that Bishop repeats are “master” and “disaster.” In this villanelle, Bishop had the chutzpah to teach her readers how to master disaster. Practice makes perfect, she ruefully assures us, and then explains how. Start by losing small things like keys or a badly spent hour, and then up the ante with larger stakes: “Practice losing farther, losing faster,” for example, the places you meant to visit, a mother’s watch, a treasured house. In the process of losing, the poet implies, your skin will thicken, you will get stronger, more resilient. “The art of losing isn’t hard to master,” Bishop insists, pointing out that she has suffered the loss of cities, rivers, even a continent. She misses them all, “but it wasn’t a disaster.” I have had enough experience of losing that I can imagine losses that I have not (yet) incurred: the loss of my house in a fire, my parents’ loss of their native land through a forced emigration. With a tight grip on the demanding form of the verse, Bishop grits her teeth, steeling herself, assuring herself (and me) that these dreadful travails can be survived. The boastful final stanza always catches me up: — Even losing you (the joking voice, a gesture I love) I shan’t have lied. It’s evident the art of losing’s not too hard to master though it may look like (Write it!) like disaster. After diagnosis I read the lost “you” of “One Art” as me. Surely my husband and daughters and stepdaughters will master the disaster of my demise, the absence of my voice and gestures. I need to believe they can and will. But of course I know that Bishop was writing about the abandonment or death of a beloved companion. And then I am flooded with terror that I could not master the disaster of losing my husband, one of our girls, their partners, or children. My list widens to include my brother, cousins, godchildren, close friends. I would rather be lost than lose, not that we are given a choice. Bishop’s parenthetical phrases and the repetition of the word “like” in the final line tell me that she also loses her breath, chokes or stutters at the thought of inconsolable bereavement. Losing a member of my family would be the worst: a soul-shattering tragedy. In comparison, my current losses from cancer amount to nothing at all — nada, bupkis. Under the shadow of that possible but thankfully unrealized nightmare, I remember a student who memorized “One Art” and stood to recite it at the front of a lecture hall of 150 freshmen because, he explained privately, it helped him come to terms with the death of his father. His voice trembled. Dealing with a disaster that had happened, he relied on Bishop’s “One Art” to give his loss a rhyme and rhythm, to find sound sense in nonsensical grief, even if only provisionally. In the face of what cannot be righted, Bishop understood the clenched urgency of heeding the imperative “Write it!” just as my student grasped the need to recite it. Now a glance out the window at a cardinal perched in the beech tree confirms my need to lavish love on those who could so easily be lost. Susan Gubar is a distinguished emerita professor of English at Indiana University and the author of “Memoir of a Debulked Woman,” which explores her experience with ovarian cancer. Your health questions answered by Times journalists and experts. Your Questions | All » Get Well's Running email for practical tips, expert advice, exclusive content and a bit of motivation delivered to your inbox every week to help you on your running journey. Coming soon. How much do you know about the amazing things that go on in your gut? Take our quiz to find out about the creepy, crawly critters living in your home. What surface is the most friendly to the flu virus? Where’s the best place to stand when you’re talking to a sick person? How does sleep affect health, relationships and well-being? The “Reading the Mind in the Eyes Test” measures ability to understand others’ emotional states. Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Sports   Photos: The Relays That Never Stopped Running. Advertisement Advertisement By LYNN ZINSERAPRIL 24, 2014 When the Penn Relays kick off Thursday, with an expected 22,000 runners and 110,000 fans crowding into Franklin Field in Philadelphia for the three-day event, it will be held on the same site for the 120th straight year. It is quite a run, so to speak, for an event that started as a single relay and was aimed at keeping the University of Pennsylvania’s track team from falling into oblivion. The idea, hatched in 1893, was to have four men each run a quarter-mile in succession, making track a team event for the first time. A team from Princeton ran against a team from Penn, and won, and a bunch of people turned out to watch. The Penn administration thought it sounded like a good idea for a bigger meet, so, in 1895, an entire event was built around relays: nine races, four for high schools and prep schools, four for colleges, and a college championship. All were 4x440 yards. About 5,000 fans showed up, a huge number for the time, overcrowding a facility that had only one wood, single-tiered bleacher. The track was unfinished because an order of cinders had not arrived in time and there were no dressing facilities, so tents were erected for that purpose. More events were added and more teams came. Eventually, the facility called Franklin Field was built, in 1903. It was, according to Penn, the first permanent college stadium in the country. It held the track, and inside it, a football field. The Relays became an international event in 1914 when a team from Oxford attended and won the new four-mile relay. The first women’s event, the 100-yard dash, was not added until 1962, and a full spectrum of women’s races did not come along until 1978, which is when the meet grew from two days of racing to three. Track never caught on as a major spectator sport in much of the United States, but the Penn Relays kept growing. The event has averaged more than 110,000 fans for the past three years, with Saturday attendance averaging more than 48,000. It has kept its charm as a mix of high school and college races, with some Olympic and professional level events sprinkled in. For three days every April, it is the center of track and field. Go to Home Page »
Travel   A Maine Lighthouse Welcomes Guests. Advertisement For the first time, the Cuckolds — a pair of granite islands a half mile off the coast of Southport Island, Maine — will be open to guests for overnight stays beginning June 27. The two-suite luxuriously decorated Inn at Cuckolds Lighthouse is inside the 19th-century lighthouse, affording 360-degree ocean views. A group of local citizens, the Cuckolds Fog Signal and Light Station Council, rescued the property from demolition and restored it over the last decade, restoring the light tower and rebuilding the keeper’s house and boathouse to historical specifications, while adding modern materials and building techniques to the inside. Local and regional businesses donated building materials, design expertise and other resources. The nonprofit Cuckolds Council owns and manages the island. Guests, who may rent a room or the entire property, will be transported to the Cuckolds in a restored Navy motor whaleboat. Resident lighthouse keepers will welcome visitors to the island, provide tours of the fully preserved historic Light Tower, serve as concierges and hosts to overnight guests, and help maintain and protect the island and Station. The innkeepers prepare a full breakfast for guests, and serve afternoon tea each day in the parlor. Lunch and dinner reservations can be made at local restaurants and nearby inns or provided on-island from a selected menu at an additional cost. Suite rates are $350 to $500 a night with a two-night minimum, while renting the entire private island costs $2,500 to $3,000. A version of this article appears in print on 05/04/2014, on page TR3 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Hotel: Rent a Room or the Entire Island. In Transit is a blog on travel news, deals and tips, written by the editors and reporters of the Travel section. Features for this blog can now be found on the new In Transit webpage and on the Travel home page.Read more… The Buenos Aires International Book Fair in Argentina will include more than 500 exhibitors.Read more… A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.Read more… The popularity of recent television series and movies like “Downton Abbey” and “Paddington” has inspired Anglophile-focused travel.Read more… During National Card and Letter Writing Month, the Hotel Hugo in New York City is encouraging guests to send notes to folks back home (cards are free).Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
U.S.   House Majority PAC Ad. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Video House Majority PAC Ad Apr. 25, 2014 | 0:30 An ad in West Virginia stressed that so-called black lung benefits for miners could be lost if the law is repealed. Related: article: Democratic Candidates Grow More Vocal in Supporting Health Law Show More PlaylistUp Next in Video Next → Op-Docs: Season 5 9:23 I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked   Video1:08 Hitting all the Right Notes Op-Docs: Season 5 13:33 Manufacturing China’s Future Op-Docs: Season 5 6:05 Fashion vs. Art   Video0:56 Excerpt: ‘The Father’   Video0:33 Excerpt: ‘Exit Strategy’ Op-Docs: Season 5 7:19 A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race   Video1:58 Excerpt: ‘Antlia Pneumatica’   News Clips: Europe1:20 Officials React to Panama Papers   News Clips: Europe3:47 Mossack Fonseca on Data Leak © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Business   A Veil, Rather Than a Mirror. Advertisement By Evan Birnholz Apr 26, 2014 The New York Times Crossword is available through subscription only. SATURDAY’S PUZZLE — Dense and flavorful. That’s not my impression of a loaf of bread, but it’s how I felt about Evan Birnholz’s puzzle. Almost every entry I guessed turned out to be wrong, but when I was able to solve them correctly, I admired this puzzle greatly for the excellent, but tough, fill. Hands up if any of the non-medical professionals out there knew the right answer to 61 Across’s clue “Reverse transcriptase is found in it.” Tough one, isn’t it? It turns out that the answer is RETROVIRUS, which sounds to me more like a terminal preference for mid-century design. I didn’t get that one, either. I knew what was being hinted at at 26 Down, but couldn’t think of the name for SKYBOX SEATS. That messed me up for quite a while. I hoped that the _OK_ answer to 38 Across would be JOKE for “Team unifier” (I’m a fun manager), but alas, it wound up being YOKE. I had a similarly tough time with its symmetrical long Down as I don’t think I ever would have guessed PROTEST VOTE for “Abstention alternative.” And yet … look at these entries. They’re wonderful, if you know what they are. You also get WALT DISNEY WORLD, CALVIN AND HOBBES, ANYONE ELSE?, HOW DARE YOU, RACE CARD (a “controversial thing to play,” which is an excellent and controversial clue), WIFE SWAP and MELON BALLS for your money. There are so many different entries in Mr. Birnholz’s puzzle from so many different categories that it almost made my head spin. Clue of the Day for my money was 16 Across’s “Office addresses?” for INAUGURALS, although I did love seeing “pusillanimous pussyfooters” in print for the entry AGNEW at 9 Down. Let’s check in with Mr. Birnholz: I built this puzzle in June of 2013. I began with the two crossing 15s, then I worked on the top stack of 10s, then the east with SKYBOX SEATS and WIFE SWAP, then the bottom stack of 10s, and finally finishing up with the west. PROTEST VOTE was one of my final answers in the grid. I’m thrilled to get another Saturday slot, but due to a little bad luck, this puzzle’s appearance in The Times is actually slightly bittersweet for me. I enjoyed solving Ian Livengood’s excellent puzzle from December 27 of last year, but look at 8-Down from that grid. Much cursing followed when I cracked that answer — he beat me to debuting CALVIN AND HOBBES in The Times! Ian didn’t do anything wrong, of course — nor, should I add, did Barry C. Silk, who scooped me on ANYONE ELSE on August 2, 2013. But the long wait time between acceptance and publication means that sometimes other constructors can beat you to debuting marquee answers or themes while you wait. It’s just part of the business, and it’s partly what motivated me to go independent with my own crossword website, since that way I can publish my work right away. Still, I don’t think people will mind having seen CALVIN AND HOBBES recently in The Times, and besides, other publications have used it as a marquee answer as well. For all I know, there’s some constructor out there who got a puzzle accepted with HOW DARE YOU in it, and now they’re gnashing their teeth about that! Finally, for various reasons, I usually hate it when people use the term RACE CARD in normal conversation. But as a crossword entry, I love it — it’s a contemporary and somewhat edgy phrase. I was not familiar with post-punk musician TED Leo, but a little research led me to his song “Me and Mia,” where we are encouraged to “Get up and be it” if we want to be something beautiful: Your thoughts? Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz.  Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold. Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages. Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving. David Kahn puts us through the wringer.Read more… Emily Cox and Henry Rathvon offer us a challenging cryptic crossword puzzle.Read more… A place for solvers to discuss and ask questions about the “A Little Variety” suite of puzzles.Read more… Kyle Mahowald’s puzzle shows interest in our well-being.Read more… Julian Lim offers us a tricky, stacked themeless puzzle, but we have tools to tackle it.Read more… Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Food   Steamed Clams With Spring Herbs. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Spring Recipes: Melissa Clark Steamed Clams With Spring Herbs By Jenny Woodward | Apr. 25, 2014 | 2:46 Melissa Clark makes steamed clams with fresh tarragon and minced chives. Related: article: Pasta Is Not Their Only Habitat Show More PlaylistUp Next in Spring Recipes: Melissa Clark ← Previous Melissa Clark Food1:51 Green Garlic Tabbouleh Melissa Clark Food1:44 Salmon With Anchovy Butter   Spring Recipes: Melissa Clark2:38 Shaved Vegetable Salad   Spring Recipes: Melissa Clark2:28 Braised Brisket   Spring Recipes: Melissa Clark3:44 Grilled Skirt Steak With Herbs   Spring Recipes: Melissa Clark3:22 Asparagus Soup With Ricotta Crostini   Spring Recipes: Melissa Clark3:17 Pea Salad With Creamy Cheese   Spring Recipes: Melissa Clark2:39 Scallops With Sorrel Butter   Now Playing Spring Recipes: Melissa Clark2:46 Steamed Clams With Spring Herbs   Spring Recipes: Melissa Clark3:26 Pasta With Garlicky Bread Crumbs   Spring Recipes: Melissa Clark3:11 Quinoa Salad for a Crowd   Spring Recipes: Melissa Clark3:04 Chocolate Caramel Macarons © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Foreign   Image of the Day: April 25. Advertisement India’s national elections began April 7 and will continue on nine separate dates until May 12, with results expected to be announced on May 16. The vote is the world’s largest, with 814 million eligible voters set to choose 543 members of the lower house of Parliament. The other two seats will be appointed by the president. This election is widely considered to be India’s most consequential since 1977. India Ink will be moving to the World page of The New York Times. Read more… A memorial ceremony at the Imphal War Cemetery in Manipur to honor the soldiers who died during World War II.Read more… The newly elected prime minister reaches out to the public in a blog post about his first 30 days in office.Read more… Newborns whose mothers are unable to breastfeed are given stored breast milk to protect them from potentially life-threatening infection.Read more… In the final stage of a long decline, Hindustan Motors announced in May that it would suspend production of the Ambassador, a car that was once synonymous with style and status.Read more… This report on India from the journalists of The New York Times and a pool of talented writers in India and beyond provides unbiased, authoritative reporting on the country and its place in the world. India Ink also strives to be a virtual meeting point for discussion of this complex, fast-changing democracy – its politics, economy, culture and everyday life. Follow Advertisement Go to Home Page »
Health   The Weekly Health Quiz. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content The New York Times Health|The Weekly Health Quiz Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go http://nyti.ms/1rpgDQE Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Health The Weekly Health Quiz In the news: pricey pills, high altitudes and avocados. Test your knowledge of this week’s health news. APRIL 24, 2014 Toby Bilanow/The New York Times Related Multimedia The Weekly Health Quiz APRIL 18, 2014 Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Movies   Clip: ‘Ida’. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Video Clip: ‘Ida’ By Music Box Films | Apr. 25, 2014 | 1:25 A scene from the film directed by Pawel Pawlikowski. Show More PlaylistUp Next in Video Next → Op-Docs: Season 5 9:23 I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked   Video1:08 Hitting all the Right Notes Op-Docs: Season 5 13:33 Manufacturing China’s Future Op-Docs: Season 5 6:05 Fashion vs. Art   Video0:56 Excerpt: ‘The Father’   Video0:33 Excerpt: ‘Exit Strategy’ Op-Docs: Season 5 7:19 A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race   Video1:58 Excerpt: ‘Antlia Pneumatica’   News Clips: Europe1:20 Officials React to Panama Papers   News Clips: Europe3:47 Mossack Fonseca on Data Leak © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Arts   Arts. Arts Search slide shows All Multimedia » next 1 of 8 At the Galleries Sign In to E-Mail or Save This "Nai Reesan Shehr Lahore Diyan (There is no Match of the City Lahore)," by Farida Batool. Photo: Farida Batool/Aicon Gallery related Article: Art in Review Home Arts Log In Register Now Copyright   The New York Times Company Privacy Policy Contact Us Help Work for Us Site Map campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_personalized_isEDU_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/slideshow/yr/mo/day/arts/0102-GALL_index.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/slideshow/yr/mo/day/arts, position: Inv1
Business   Test Memory for Errors. Advertisement Advertisement By J.D. BIERSDORFERJAN. 1, 2009 Q. Ever since I increased the amount of memory inside the box, my Windows Vista PC has been crashing off and on. Is there a way to tell if the new RAM chips are causing the problem as opposed to, say, a virus? A. Faulty memory chips inside the computer can cause all sorts of erratic behavior, including random program crashes and fatal operating system errors (known in Windows lore as “the blue screen of death”). Without updated antivirus software, computers can get viruses, which can also cause all sorts of unexpected behavior. But if RAM was added to the system just before the crashing began, the odds are that the problem may be with the new chips. The Web is host to a number of programs that test for defective or failing computer memory, but the Vista system itself includes the Windows Memory Diagnostic tool, which tests the hardware and reports problems. To use it, go to the Start menu and type “memory” in the search box. This should bring up the tool. Advertisement It offers the choice of restarting the PC right there and running the tests or performing the diagnostic the next time the computer starts up. The TechRepublic site has an illustrated guide to using the software at snipurl.com/941gb. Microsoft also has instructions and a link to download the Windows Memory Diagnostic software for Windows XP at oca.microsoft.com/en/windiag.asp. Some users in online forums have reported that the Vista memory tool can be a little quirky, and there are other memory-tester programs for Windows. MemTest (hcidesign.com/memtest) and Memtest86 ($10.95 at www.memtest86.com) are two. For the Mac, the Memtest OS X utility (www.memtestosx.org/joomla/index.php) tests memory. Memtest OS X uses typed instructions from the Mac’s command line, but the Rember program (www.kelleycomputing.net/rember) gives it a graphical interface. No Spelling Help from iPhone Q. Is there a way to turn off the iPhone’s automatic spelling correction? It gets in the way when typing. A. Early versions of the iPhone’s system software did not include a way to turn off the automatic correction feature that pops up and replaces words it assumes are spelled or typed incorrectly. However, Apple recently added an onscreen switch to disable the automatic correction. You need to download and install version 2.2 of the iPhone system software at www.apple.com/iphone/softwareupdate if you haven’t done so already. Once the iPhone is updated, tap the Settings icon on the Home screen. On the next screen, tap General, scroll down and tap Keyboard. At the top of the Keyboard screen is an On-Off button to tap for the Auto Correction feature. Tap the button to Off. Several other settings for the iPhone’s keyboard can be adjusted here as well. These include a feature that automatically capitalizes the first letter of the next word after a period, as well as a shortcut that inserts a period followed by a space when the keyboard’s space bar is tapped twice. Advertisement TIP OF THE WEEK The News Feed feature on Facebook, which displays recent status updates, comments and posted photos, is a great way to see what your friends have been up to lately. But some friends may be a little more active and dominate the feed, crowding out acquaintances who post less, or who are not as close to you. Facebook allows its members to tinker with the mix. On the News Feed page, hover over a friend’s name or update with the cursor until an Options link appears on the right side of the line. Click on the link to get the choice to see fewer (or even more) updates from this particular pal. For more ways to fiddle with the feed, click on the Options for News Feed link at the bottom of the page. J. D. BIERSDORFER Questions about computer-based technology may be sent to QandA @nytimes.com. This weekly column will address questions of general interest, but e-mail and letters cannot be answered individually. A version of this article appears in print on , on page B7 of the New York edition with the headline: Q & A. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Foreign   Ted Lapidus, Designer Who Reshaped French Fashion, Is Dead at 79. Advertisement Advertisement By WILLIAM GRIMESDEC. 31, 2008 Ted Lapidus, the designer who shook up French fashion in the 1960s and ’70s with the safari suit, military jackets for women and ready-to-wear unisex clothing, died Monday in Cannes, France. He was 79. His sister, the fashion designer Rose Torrente-Mett, said the cause was respiratory failure after he suffered from leukemia for several years, Agence France-Presse reported. What François Truffaut was to film, Mr. Lapidus was at least for a time to French haute couture. Determinedly modern, he translated the design vocabulary of haute couture into sleek, affordable clothes aimed at French consumers barely in their 20s. “In France now, the daughters are clothing the mothers and the sons the fathers,” he said in a 1964 interview when introducing his ready-to-wear line at Macy’s. Mr. Lapidus sensed a generational shift in France and capitalized on it; his clothes found favor with style-setters like Brigitte Bardot, Alain Delon, Jean-Paul Belmondo and Jane Fonda. Edmond Lapidus, who later adopted the American-sounding Ted, was born in Paris, where his father, a Russian immigrant, worked as a tailor. Unable to afford medical school, he took up the family trade. While attending a technical school in Tokyo, he saw the possibility of applying high fashion fabricating techniques to industrial production. “If you have the right work force, there’s no reason why this cannot be done in a factory just as well as in a fashion house,” he said. After an apprenticeship with Dior, he started his own fashion house in 1951. In 1958 he opened the Ted Lapidus boutique on the Rue Marbeuf. In 1963, he created a near scandal in the world of haute couture by forming a partnership with the manufacturer Belle Jardinière, which mass-produced his designs and sold them at its 250 budget-priced stores in France. Regardless, that year he was admitted to the official French couture association. Advertisement “He was one of the first to do boutiques, along with Yves Saint Laurent,” said George Simonton, an assistant professor of fashion design at the Fashion Institute of Technology. “They became so popular that they spread to the United States.” Mr. Lapidus’s first boutique in New York opened across from Bloomingdale’s in 1974. It was followed a year later by a store on Fifth Avenue at 53rd Street. “His clothes really fit,” Mr. Simonton said. “Even people without good bodies looked good in them because they were so well tailored. He was a pioneer in making the denim category sexy by putting some style and fit into it.” Mr. Lapidus may be best remembered for a sand-colored safari jacket with leather lacing in the front, worn by Ms. Bardot, and for a military-style jacket with epaulets and gold buttons, both produced for the mass market. In the 1970s Mr. Lapidus turned his energies to franchising his boutiques and licensing his name for perfumes, jewelry, watches and sunglasses. In 1989 his son, Olivier, became design director of the company, which was sold to a succession of owners. A version of this article appears in print on , on page A23 of the New York edition with the headline: Ted Lapidus, 79, Designer; Reshaped French Fashion. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Home   In Harmony With Earth, Wind and Fire. Advertisement Advertisement In the Garden By STEPHEN ORR DEC. 31, 2008 CALISTOGA, Calif. THE first clue that a visitor to Tatwina and Richard Lee’s hilltop property is headed somewhere unusual is the approach, as it’s known in landscape design parlance. The nearly half-mile of dusty road winds dramatically up an intermediary ridge of the Diamond Mountains above Napa Valley. Each turn raises the expectation that the house will soon appear, as houses normally do, but even when the gravel parking area at the top is finally reached, there’s no sign of a house or a garden, just a simple path of crushed stone edged with mounds of green-gray Sonoma sage and California lilac. This, it turns out, leads over a rise to a low, rammed-earth house hidden on the other side. The house — really a line of four one-story buildings made of earth, concrete and steel — sits in the depression between two knolls on a narrow, rocky peninsula, with steep, pine-covered hills swooping down on three sides to vineyards famous for their cabernet sauvignon. The land immediately surrounding the house is given over to a naturalistic garden, which has been carefully designed not to look designed at all. In the context of the recent building boom, when hills across the country were clear-cut to make room for suburban-size lawns and topped with large houses, the hunkered-down house and its restrained, almost imperceptible garden have a quiet but powerful presence — even as they are invisible from the closest roads. When the Lees bought 30 acres of the hilltop for $500,000 in 2001, it was a relatively bare, stony site that had never been built on. Ms. Lee said that neighbors told her that its tall redwoods had been cleared to gather lumber for the reconstruction of San Francisco after the 1906 earthquake, and something, perhaps its remote location, had kept people from putting a house there since. But the arresting mountain views instantly attracted the couple, who live in Berkeley and were searching for a weekend home. “The West Coast is not as laid back as it used to be,” said Ms. Lee, a fund-raiser and trustee for the San Francisco Foundation, a community grant-making organization, and a fourth-generation Californian. “My husband and I needed someplace to go just to exhale.” Mr. Lee is an eye surgeon. To design the house, the Lees turned to their son and daughter-in-law, Eliot Lee and Eun Sun Chun, both architects in New York City. The resulting home (the cost of which the Lees would not disclose) is really a compound: a living room with a kitchen and dining area, a master bedroom and bath, a guesthouse with two bedrooms, and a sauna and spa, which add up to about 2,500 square feet of indoor space, all connected by gravel paths and stone steps that circulate around and back to a central outdoor kitchen and dining area. An elevated lap pool continues out from the emphatic angled line of a rammed earth wall bisecting the compound. “Once we saw the site we knew we couldn’t just do a house that could be found anywhere,” said Ms. Chun, a partner in 212box, an architecture and design firm. “It had to fit here.” Eliot Lee, a partner at Steven Harris Architects, was advised by Mr. Harris to begin the landscape design during the initial process of designing and placing the house in order to smoothly integrate the structures with their setting. Several landscape architects were interviewed, and the architects found Eric and Silvina Blasen, of Blasen Landscape Architecture in San Anselmo, Calif., to be the most sympathetic to the idea that a light touch was needed when it came to replanting the surrounding land after construction. Advertisement THE Blasens were particularly concerned with preserving the existing land contours and protecting the native vegetation, especially several old manzanitas (Arctostaphylos), a shrub Californians prize for its twisted red branches and tiny bell-like flowers. Advertisement “Even though we were very impressed with what they wanted to do, which was so in tune with the land, every time you build a house — well, it’s like a bomb going off in the surrounding landscape,” Ms. Blasen said. “We knew we would have to bring back the same feeling of what was originally there and make it kind of come up and touch the architecture of the new house.” Plants were relocated and natives like tufted hair grass (Deschampsia cespitosa), pearly everlasting (Gnaphalium californicum) and purple needlegrass (Nassella pulchra) were hydro-seeded, using the process of mixing seed with mulch and water and spraying it over prepared ground, in between to soften the circuit of crushed stone paths and steps. A biologist’s report (required to start the building project because the area is a nesting area for endangered spotted owls) formed the base of a rich but fairly limited list of native plants that included oaks, Douglas firs, ceanothus, coffeeberry (Rhamnus californica), Sonoma sage and manzanitas. A meadow of indigenous orange California poppies, white Douglas iris, yellow limnanthes and blue nemophila was also planted. The site, “solid rock” as described by Ms. Blasen, required that spaces be found in the fractured limestone to dig in the plants without importing much new soil. In this rugged environment, exotic species would seem to have little chance. “They only used plants that want to be here,” Eliot Lee said. Now, the new plantings have knit together into mounding evergreen forms that mitigate the harshness of the landscape. No stone was brought in for the project, nor was any hauled off the property. Everything that was excavated for the foundation was either used to create steps or crushed for paths. Even the earth surfacing for the buildings contains a higher than normal level of aggregate rock and soil from the site, so that it matches the color of the surrounding sedimentary formations. The architecture and landscape design are closely integrated in other ways, too. The paths, along with the earthen walls, are the main unifying elements of the garden, and draw people into it. “I have to say, friends and relatives are really shocked when they first see the layout,” Ms. Lee said, referring in particular to the master bedroom being some 50 feet from the main house. The paths between the structures get “city people out into nature,” she said, “especially in the moonlight on their way to bed.” The Blasens designed the paths to be unusually narrow, so that walkers have to focus on what’s immediately around them, and to call other senses into play as well, with the crunch of gravel underfoot and the sharp herbal scents released when walkers brush into strategically planted sage and other fragrant shrubs. Advertisement ONE of the most important design considerations for the landscape was wildfire suppression. As a California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection report states, “Even without people, the state’s volatile combination of climate, terrain and vegetation produces one of the most combustible natural fire environments on earth.” After meeting with local fire marshals to see what measures should be taken, the Blasens cleared the dry brushy areas around the house of dead wood and of the tall pines that had been planted by the forestry service in the 1930s or 40s and were now in decline. The main goal was to avoid fire ladders, the sloped thickets of dry vegetation that allow flames to rage up hillsides, as occurred recently around Santa Barbara. Beyond clearing dead or dying trees and brush, this is done by separating the groups of new plantings with gaps of either low groundcovers like sage or grasses that are cut back during fire season. Trees are mainly kept away from the house, except in the non-native area of the garden where there is a square of lawn and a row of olive trees. Here the irrigated turf, not usually an eco-friendly feature, acts as another fire buffer. “We are as safe as we can be in fire country,” Ms. Lee said. She knows the risks: the famous Berkeley fire of 1991 stopped just three houses from their home there. But besides its protective value, “the small lawn is an important element in how we live,” Ms. Lee said. “It attracts me outside to practice qigong, since you need your feet on something natural. Plus it’s a wonderful place for the grandchildren to play.” Olives were chosen since they could take strong sun and high winds (“sometimes we get 80 mile-an-hour winds — it can rain sideways up here,” she said). Usually, the weather is more typical of the Bay Area, with a mix of sun and creeping fog that makes for an ever-shifting backdrop. “The mists remind me of a Chinese landscape painting, but one that keeps changing,” Ms. Lee said. Though the couple has been living here since 2005, the project is continuing. “It wasn’t ‘Do the house, now you’re done, O.K. goodbye,’ ” said Ms. Chun, who visits several times a year with her husband and children. There are more features under discussion, including solar panels, one or more additional guesthouses and a modernist vegetable garden designed by the Blasens just down the slope from the house. Still, the Lees appear rapturous about the place. “I’m so happy with everything,” Ms. Lee said. “It’s very special that this place is so close to what I wanted, even if I didn’t know what I wanted at the time we started. I could move here full-time in a heartbeat.” Advertisement It seems perfectly natural that once you’ve lived hidden away at such heights, it would be difficult to come back down. A version of this article appears in print on , on page D5 of the New York edition with the headline: In Harmony With Earth, Wind and Fire. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe See More » Go to Home Page »
Science   Fava Bean Soup With Mint. Advertisement Advertisement Recipes for Health By MARTHA ROSE SHULMAN JAN. 1, 2009 Although this looks like a Mediterranean soup, I came across it in Veracruz, Mexico, where the cuisine still has Spanish overtones. I have eaten a similar fava bean dish in Spain. You can find skinned, split fava beans in Middle Eastern markets. A warning, though: fava beans are toxic to individuals with favism, caused by an inherited blood enzyme deficiency. Be cautious when trying fava beans for the first time. 1 pound dried, skinned fava beans, washed, picked over, and soaked in water to cover for 6 hours or overnight 2 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil 1 medium onion, chopped 4 garlic cloves, minced 1/2 pound tomatoes, peeled, seeded, and chopped, or 1 cup canned chopped tomatoes 10 sprigs fresh spearmint, tied in a bunch with kitchen string 2 quarts water Salt to taste Slivered fresh mint leaves, extra virgin olive oil, and dried red pepper flakes for garnish 1. Drain the favas. Heat 1 tablespoon olive oil in a large, heavy soup pot or Dutch oven over medium heat and add the onion. Cook, stirring, until tender, about 5 minutes, and add the garlic. Stir together for a minute, until fragrant, and add the tomatoes and 1/2 teaspoon salt. Cook, stirring often, until the tomatoes have cooked down slightly, about 5 minutes, and add the beans, 2 quarts water, another 2 teaspoons salt, and the mint. Bring to a boil, reduce the heat, cover and simmer 2 hours, or until the beans have begun to fall apart and thicken the soup. Stir from time to time to make sure the beans are not settling at the bottom of the pot and sticking. Advertisement 2. When the beans are soft and falling apart, remove the bundle of mint, and using tongs, any stray mint leaves. Using an immersion blender, puree the soup. Taste and adjust seasonings. 3. Serve, garnishing each bowl with a drizzle of olive oil, a sprinkling of slivered mint leaves, and a pinch of red pepper flakes. Yield: Serves 6 Advance preparation: This is best served the day it is made, as it tends to continue to thicken if it sits overnight. It will still be good, but you may have to thin it out with water. Approximate Nutritional Information per Serving: Calories: 315; Calories from fat: 52; Total fat: 5.8g; Saturated fat: 0.8g; Cholesterol: 0mg; Sodium: 22mg; Total Carbohydrates: 47.9g: Dietary Fiber: 19.7g; Sugars: 6.1g; Protein: 20.4g (Nutritional information provided by calorie-count.com) See More » Go to Home Page »
Sports   Correction. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content Skip to navigation View mobile version The New York Times Sports|Correction Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Supported by Sports Correction DEC. 31, 2008 Continue reading the main story Share This Page Continue reading the main story An article on Wednesday about President-elect Barack Obama’s interest in golf misidentified the Golf Digest issue in which an article about the subject appears. It is the February issue, not January. (It is scheduled to be on newsstands on Tuesday.) A version of this correction appears in print on , on page A4 of the New York edition with the headline: Corrections. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Continue reading the main story What's Next Loading... Go to Home Page » Site Index The New York Times Site Index Navigation News World U.S. Politics N.Y. Business Tech Science Health Sports Education Obituaries Today's Paper Corrections Opinion Today's Opinion Op-Ed Columnists Editorials Contributing Writers Op-Ed Contributors Opinionator Letters Sunday Review Taking Note Room for Debate Public Editor Video: Opinion Arts Today's Arts Art & Design ArtsBeat Books Dance Movies Music N.Y.C. Events Guide Television Theater Video: Arts Living Automobiles Crossword Food Education Fashion & Style Health Jobs Magazine N.Y.C. Events Guide Real Estate T Magazine Travel Weddings & Celebrations Listings & More Classifieds Tools & Services Times Topics Public Editor N.Y.C. Events Guide Blogs Multimedia Photography Video NYT Store Times Journeys Subscribe Manage My Account Subscribe Subscribe Times Insider Home Delivery Digital Subscriptions NYT Opinion Crossword Email Newsletters Alerts Gift Subscriptions Corporate Subscriptions Education Rate Mobile Applications Replica Edition International New York Times Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Arts   Tutus on a Deadline. Subscribe Now Subscribe campaign: inyt2015_bar1_digi_usd_4L9UF -- 277474, creative: inyt2015_bar1_digi_buttononly_usd_4L9UF -- 406560, page: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/arts/20090103_COSTUME_SLIDESHOW.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/arts, position: Bar1 Log In Register Now Help More Slide Shows Arts Search Slide Shows All Multimedia » Close Tutus on a Deadline « Previous 1 of 8 Next » Sign In to E-Mail Mirka Owczarek and Teodozjia Kozlowska working on costumes for "Coppélia" at the New York City Ballet costume shop. Roslyn Sulcas writes: For many people the period between Christmas and New Year’s Day is a moment of calm, a chance to catch up on unfinished business and perhaps leave work a little early. But not at the New York City Ballet’s costume shop, as last-minute fittings for new “Nutcracker” casts coincide with preparation for the opening of the company’s repertory season on Tuesday. Credit: Andrea Mohin/The New York Times Related Article: A Stitch Here, a Dye Job There and a Little Creative Guessing Home Arts © 2011 The New York Times Company Privacy Policy Your Ad Choices Contact Us Help Work for Us Site Map campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_personalized_isEDU_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/arts/20090103_COSTUME_SLIDESHOW.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/arts, position: Inv1
Business   Talk to the Newsroom: Jill Abramson, Managing Editor. Advertisement Advertisement JAN. 2, 2009 Jill Abramson, managing editor of The Times, answered questions from readers Jan. 5-9, 2009. She previously answered questions the week of Nov. 13, 2006. To move directly to the most recent answer, click here. Ms. Abramson was appointed managing editor in 2003 after serving as Washington bureau chief. She joined the newspaper in 1997. Previously, she was an editor and investigative reporter at The Wall Street Journal. She is a graduate of Harvard College and co-author of two books: "Strange Justice: The Selling of Clarence Thomas" and "Where They Are Now." Other Times staff members have answered questions in this column, including Executive Editor Bill Keller, Managing Editor John Geddes, Assistant Managing Editor Glenn Kramon, Associate Managing Editor Charles Strum, Obituaries Editor Bill McDonald, Metropolitan Editor Joe Sexton, Living Editor Trish Hall, Investigations Editor Matthew Purdy, National Editor Suzanne Daley, Sports Editor Tom Jolly and Culture Editor Sam Sifton. Their responses and those of other Times staff members are available on the Talk to the Newsroom page. These discussions will continue in coming weeks with other Times editors and reporters. Could The Times Become Simply a Curator? Q. Should The New New York Times evolve from being primarily a content creator to being primarily a curator of vastly proliferating online content? Many undiscovered yet high-quality blogs exist on the Internet. Those blogs could feed content to The Times at virtually no cost, while wire services such as The Associated Press could provide basic news. The New York Times could retain a small staff of editors and writers to fill any gaps. Is this a realistic prospect? Advertisement A. Certainly, I agree with you that there are many high-quality blogs and other news content on the Internet. If you look at The Times's alternative home page, Times Extra, you will see that we do curate some of the best material from other sites and sources and that we actively guide our readers to this material. Our opinion editors curate material and commentary from some of the smartest blogs and cite them on The Opinionator, which is another way The Times serves as a curator of non-Times content. There are plenty of other examples, too. We not only view ourselves as curators but also as convenors, and we are about to launch a new venture on NYTimes.com, jointly managed by editors from the news and opinion sides of The Times, to include more outside commentary on the news by various experts. Broadening the ways in which we can convene and curate the best journalism and the most intelligent conversation about it is very much part of our core mission, and we are constantly adding new material to our Web site. However, none of this is a replacement for our news-gathering. Sure, there are other news organizations that gather the news, but few that consistently meet The Times's standards of excellence. Last week, our business section included an article about news organizations retreating from coverage of Iraq. The Times believes the story is still unfolding and remains vitally important. So we maintain a fully staffed news bureau, at great expense, in Baghdad. We know our readers expect first-class international coverage from The Times and deserve Iraq coverage that includes all of the angles, from the challenges to the United States military, to the complex politics of the country, to the changes in Iraqi society. With other news gatherers retreating, what would happen if The Times left it to others to do the first-hand reporting? We view our work reporting the news around the world, from the China earthquake to the financial meltdown on Wall Street, as a public trust that contributes to an informed society. This will always be journalism's highest calling. The State of Investigative Journalism Q. I would like to ask what steps The New York Times has taken/will take to restore the place of investigative journalism to American journalism. Following the enormous miss on the Judith Miller weapons of mass destruction reporting, and the overall deafness of all major papers to the financial crises we are now in, what specific steps were/will be taken in the newsroom to improve the verification of information and the scope of reporting? Can The New York Times, for instance, reserve a news hole on Page 1 to track the bailout funds and what is being done with them on a weekly basis? Can we expect journalistic integrity and courage in these lean times? A. The Times has devoted its full investigative muscle to covering the financial crisis. I commend to you our ongoing series, The Reckoning, which is a splendid example of accountability journalism. As someone who has spent a lot of her career as an investigative reporter, I'll confess that a frustration of mine has always been that so much investigative journalism involves a dissection of events in the past. Our goal with The Reckoning has been to provide our readers with an ongoing investigation of what went wrong and who is accountable and to do this journalism in real time. So you have had deep, explanatory articles that explain how credit default swaps became financial weapons of mass destruction; holding Republicans (such as former Senator Phil Gramm) and Democrats (Senator Charles Schumer) accountable for Washington's lapses and examining the roles of key policymakers, including some from the past, like Alan Greenspan and Robert Rubin. We are tracking the way the bailout money is being spent and have a full-time reporter in Washington, one of our best investigative reporters, assigned to cover this subject as a beat. Our banking reporters are also on the case. And our Web site has a page that tracks payments from the bailout fund. Advertisement We have been all over the story, with a large team of reporters and editors on the Times business desk, as well as the Washington bureau, the national desk and the foreign desk, since the story is global. While some in the media may not have seen it coming, The Times was prescient about key elements of the crisis years ago. Gretchen Morgenson, among others, was writing about the dangers of many of the more exotic financial instruments long before housing prices began to plummet. She is a shining example of how important investigative reporters are during a story as complex and large as this one. There aren't that many investigative journalists with real business acumen, and The Times is lucky to have a solid group of these reporters. Coverage of the Israeli-Palestinian Conflict Q. Why is The New York Times so anti-Israel? I have stopped buying The Times and I experience joy every time I hear that the old grey lady is in financial trouble. In fact, my happy day is when there are pink slips handed out to your pro-terrorist reporters. The reporter you have in Gaza is a working member of the Hamas propaganda machine. Do you think that this is not going to hurt your paper's reputation? You have lost me as a reader. Q. Why did Monday's lead story online state that Israel "Rebuffs Peace Efforts" when in fact Israel has rebuffed calls for a cease-fire while Hamas continues to fire rockets into Israel? Interestingly, on Sunday, The Times was reporting accurately that Israel had rebuffed calls for a cease-fire. Israel has stated all along that "peace efforts" should also focus on the Hamas rockets and that pulling back at this point while the Hamas rockets continue to land in Israel would be foolish. Q. When will your newspaper begin to offer a balanced analysis of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict? Although you are not as bad as The New York Post, you are still pretty bad. Q. In the current Israeli invasion of Gaza, what effort is The New York Times making to consult and cite sharply critical analysts from the Arab world and Europe, as well as the usual Israeli and Washington sources? (I think the coverage has been quite good in giving a sense of the likely unintended consequences, but it is still very limited when compared, say, with London newspapers.) Advertisement Q. How come the Times only writes about Gaza hardships when there is immense suffering from the israeli side due to the rocket attacks? Q. I have been interested lately in the language used to describe the Israeli/Palestinian crisis. There are references by the media, the Palestinians and the Israelis to the Hamas desire for the "destruction of the state of Israel." The Israeli's and the media seem to mean or at least imply that this threat means the death of everyone in Israel. Is that correct? Or does the phrase, when used by Palestinians; mean a one state solution or some right of return? I wonder if we disenfranchise the goals of the Palestinians by relying on this phrase (and making it seem more evil) without knowing what it actually means? Is this something the Times editors have thought about? What's your take? Q. I am a reader of The New York Times from New Mexico. I would like to see more coverage on the Israeli and Palestinian conflict. I am worried that the news seems a bit biased for the Israelis. My question to you is why is there no front-page coverage of the demonstrations against this invasion? Why not interview the Muslim opinion being that there are no reporters allowed into Gaza. Why is the question of "why reporters aren't allowed into Gaza" being raised as this is an Israeli command of the borders? I have always thought The New York Times to be very informational, but this coverage seems biased. Your paper is very influential. I ask that you report Mr. Obama's opinion. Advertisement Q. How come the international community goes into an uproar when Israel invades Gaza, yet is mum when 75 rockets a day invade Israel? Q. Actually Aljazeera is doing a better job of covering the Gaza situation, albeit with a slant, than The New York Times. Interesting.... Q. Monday's article about the Israeli invasion of Gaza reports that Israel said it targets mosques and houses because "they housed either rockets or launchers or militants," but then goes on to add that Israel "offered little evidence of its claim." This last addition implies that Israel is being disingenuous and seems to me to be an editorial comment and does not belong in a report of the facts but rather should appear in an opinion piece. What do you think? Q. I am curious as to the time’s reporting on the war in Gaza. While there is a constant emphasis on civilian casualties, little if any emphasis is placed on Hama’s deliberate placement of weapons in civilian areas,; inviting the death or injury of their own population. Additionally, the Times’ has great concern for the Geneva Convention as it pertains to enemy combatants and their rights. Where is the reciprocal attention to the outrageous violation of the Geneva Convention as manifested by conducting terrorist attacks within civilian enclaves, essentially using your own population as human shields? Q. Coverage of Israel seems to me to exclude many of the noble and sacrificial efforts of that nation and those people toward (often hostile) neighbors. Also, when Gaza aggression is reported, we seem to hear more of body counts (Palestine always higher) and less of how many people have been terrorized by the other side (ie. needing to stay within 15 seconds of a bomb shelter in Ashkelon, etc.). Balance seems lacking. A. With the assault on Hamas dominating the news, it isn't at all surprising that so many questions have come in suggesting that The Times favors one side in the fight. Even in times of cease-fire, stories about the Arab-Israeli conflict consistently provoke a large response from our readers, probably more than any other topic. In the case of this set of questions, I see a backwards vote of confidence in The Times's reporting, given that every identifiable faction in this fractured collision of peoples and injustices believes so firmly that we are taking a side — someone else's. We scrupulously avoid taking sides and consider it our responsibility to fully document the motives, histories, politics, and perspectives of everyone in the conflict. When we write about a conflict, we are careful to explain what each side is responding to, since there is usually a chain of actions and reactions that stretches back over time (and in this case over the span of 12 American presidencies). Therefore in the most recent fighting in Gaza, we wrote both of Israel's actions — the air and ground campaigns and the resulting casualties and hardship — but also what provoked them — the sustained firing of rockets by Hamas into Israeli territory and the terror that has inflicted on many Israeli communities. We wrote of the breakdown of the truce between Hamas and Israel, and the grievances on both sides. Hamas continued to fire rockets, which convinced Israel that Hamas would not change its fundamental hostility to Israel's existence. And Hamas expected that its truce might prompt Israel to reconsider its campaign to pressure and discredit Hamas by stifling its economy through closing border crossings and other measures. Long before this latest outbreak, we had written about all these issues, including documenting consistently, over time, the history of rocket attacks on southern Israel. We often have readers pointing that on any given day, The Times has given prominence to, say, Palestinian suffering and played down Israeli suffering, by putting an article about one side on the front page and not the other, or featuring pictures of one side suffering but not an equivalent number of pictures about the other side's suffering. On the other side, we hear complaints that when just a few Israelis are killed, we give that just as much emphasis as higher numbers of Palestinian casualties. Fairness does not mean exactly equal treatment or play. When casualties are much higher on one side, as they are right now in Gaza, it is likely readers will see more prominent articles about the privations of Gazans. That simply reflects the realities on the ground. But we do not ignore the sufferings of Israelis and readers will continue to read about the plight of Israelis in the line of rocket fire from Hamas. Advertisement The Times remains committed to careful observation and reportage so that our readers can get the information they need to draw their own conclusions about what these events mean, and whom they want to hold responsible, in the moment and longer term. So our coverage of the assault on Hamas includes reporting that Arab leaders, Western world leaders and rights organizations have denounced the Israeli assault on Gaza. It includes descriptions of the deaths and injuries and terror that the Israeli strikes have caused. It also includes the perspective from the Israeli side: that since 2001, more than 10,000 rockets and mortars have been fired from Gaza into Israel, with a continuing if limited toll of deaths, and terror for Israeli civilians. A search of our database shows more than 300 articles since 2001 of substantial size in which rocket firings were reported. These articles described the suffering the rockets caused on the Israeli side, as well as the Israeli efforts to stop the rocket fire and the suffering that ensued in Gaza. But we have other coverage of Gaza: explorations of the privations faced by Gazans as well as Israel's struggle to grapple with the territory. Please take a look at our Topics page, for a full index of our coverage of Gaza. The Future of the News Business Q. I grew up in apartheid South Africa, subject to propaganda and censorship, and government-produced media. Therefore I read and relish The New York Times every day. Why? Because it's the best newspaper, period. Ever, period. In the world, period. I buy the print edition occasional Sundays, just to revel in the quintessential "Sunday Newspaper." To fill the mind. But I feel guilty that I'm not paying for it, in order to support what I see as a great institution, as great as say, a museum or a charitable cause. Q. Why do newspapers keep giving away their content for free on the internet? Isn't that harming newspaper sales? Especially with smaller newspapers, will internet advertising ever be able to pick up in revenue what newspapers are losing in copy sales? Will content continue to be free on newspaper internet sites for the forseeable future? Q. In the wake of the bankruptcy of the Tribune Company, parent company of The Los Angeles Times and The Chicago Tribune, a question that has cropped up is how to make money off of journalism. Local papers are cutting back staffers, and forcing existing staff to become multitaskers. Even NPR, ostensibly one of America's only government-funded news sources has had to cut back on staffers. While many see the "solution" to making money in journalism as online based advertising, there are free open-source programs that can be installed in Web browsers that block advertisements. Even startups like Politico that boast a robust online reporting contingent still derive much of their revenue from print-based advertising. How can quality, privately funded journalism survive with so many ways to get it free, unincumbered by ads? A. The Times is successful and remains profitable. In print, our newspaper has successfully pursued a highly educated, affluent, national readership. Because of our national reach, our newspaper has not been impacted in the same way as regional newspapers, which are more closely tied to the vicissitudes of their local economies and to cutbacks in classified advertising. Meanwhile, we have built the largest and highest quality newspaper Web site. Our readership growth confirms our belief that we are right to constantly find ways to deepen and broaden our readers' engagement with NYTimes.com and to keep growing on the Web, including visually through video and interactive graphics. Our strategy involved integrating our newsroom, so our newspaper and Web site are always working in unison, not as separate entities, to provide the highest quality news on as many platforms as possible. With the severe downturn in the economy, The Times is facing challenges, though ones that are not as daunting as those confronting smaller, regional newspapers. We have had some buyouts and layoffs, but nothing like the wholesale slashing of staff that has so visibly narrowed the ambitions and weakened the news-gathering abilities of some other publications. Advertisement Several years ago, The Times experimented with charging readers for some content in Times Select. But things like putting our most popular columnists behind a pay wall reduced the number of people who could read their work and over time we decided that expanding our robust readership was more important. Our large audience attracts advertisers who financially support our journalism. Still, it has been interesting to see the revival of a discussion within journalism about whether news on the Web should be free. In part, this discussion is fueled by the reality that advertising revenue growth has slowed on the Internet, so hopes that Web revenue would soon make up for loss of circulation and advertising at print newspapers has dimmed. Various people have put forth new, pay model proposals, including Joel Brinkley, a former Times reporter who teaches at Stanford, who suggested having the major newspapers, including The Times, seek an exemption from antitrust laws so that they could all decide at once to begin charging for Web content. I suspect that new models for charging for quality news will become Topic A within the journalism profession this year. Maintaining High Standards Q. I know that The Times admitted many mistakes in its reporting during the lead up to the Iraq war. It appeared that just not enough questions or "digging" was done by The Times to rebut the WMD claim by the Bush administration. Their assertions were pretty much taken at face value. Iterations of that episode will undoubtedly take place in the upcoming Obama administration. Can you explain the type of "checks and balances," if you will, The Times has implemented to ensure that this kind of journalistic mishandling does not happen again? A. The lapses in our reporting on WMD provoked some healthy self-examination at The Times. We found that there was an echo chamber between Bush administration officials and some of our reporters' sources that seemed to confirm extremely faulty pre-war intelligence on WMD. You are right that there was not a robust enough reporting effort aimed at collecting the views of skeptics inside the intelligence community, although The Times did publish some very good stories that reflected dissenting reporting, including stories by James Risen, Eric Schmitt and David Sanger. I believe The Times and other news organizations that published stories based on the faulty intelligence have become properly skeptical and have done the digging necessary to truth-test the government's intelligence claims and to expose false claims. In 2005, we published stories, based on the excellent investigative reporting of Jim Risen and Eric Lichtblau, about the government's secret surveillance program, which won a Pulitzer Prize. Last year our stories on secret torture memos were a finalist for another Pulitzer. We are equal opportunity tough and during the campaign we directed considerable investigative reporting power at both candidates, Barack Obama and John McCain. We will apply the same rigorous standards to covering the Obama administration. We have a culture at The Times that prizes thorough investigative reporting and we give our journalists the time they need to dig and confirm their reporting. In terms of broader quality control, we also have a full-time standards editor, Craig Whitney, and a public editor, Clark Hoyt, who frequently pokes at what he views as deficiencies in our journalism. We did not have these positions before 2003, when some of the WMD stories were published. An Unintentional Word Substitution Q. I hope it is not true that The New York Times has replaced any use of the word "gay" when people search for articles and send your articles with the word "beep" as has been claimed online and in many news stories. If this is true, it is a clear indicator that The New York Times is homophobic and censors information and "words" that are clearly not only important, but identify many individuals in our society. It is oppressive and of the worst type of censorship if you have, in any way, done away with this word in your mobile searches or elsewhere. It is discrimination and the word has several meanings so not sure what the justification would be for this at all... I plead that you put my name in with the hundreds of others who are and will complain to The New York Times about this blatant discrimination and that this "rule" changes immediately. I know that I and many of my friends and family will not be reading The New York Times any longer if this does not change. A. Updated Jan. 8, 2009, 3:30 p.m. Our corporate communication department has expanded on the statement regarding this technical problem. Here is the new statement: Our text messaging aggregator created a list of words that it considers inappropriate for all audiences. According to the terms of our contract, the aggregator requires publishers to remove these words from both Times content and user comments sent via text message. The word "gay" used to be on the list of words to be beeped. The aggregator took the word "gay" off its list some time ago but we did not update the list in our system, which has to be done manually. Therefore, earlier this week, the word "gay" was beeped from a headline when users forwarded an Op-Ed piece from their mobile devices to others. We updated the list as soon as we understood the problem. No offense was intended and we apologize to our readers, employees and friends in the gay community for this happening. As we said earlier, we have taken steps so this does not happen again. Advertisement Recently, a technical error occurred with The Times's text messaging platform that caused the word "gay" to be replaced with "beep." This was unintentional and we regret it occurred. The problem has been fixed and we have taken steps to prevent it from happening again. Forget Waldo. Where's Maureen Dowd? Q. Just explain where Maureen Dowd has been for over a month. I have written to her and to the editors with no explanation. I may have to resort to reading her Vanity Fair Tina Fey article a third time just for my wordsmithing fix. A. I have been deluged by the collective wailing of readers for the last month: Where is Maureen Dowd? I, too, have found it hard to live without her column these past weeks. (Hey, the Tina Fey piece was great, but it wasn't a substitute). She's been off, time deserved after a political year in which she often worked without any days off and did so much great reporting and writing. And.....She'll be back on the Op-Ed page. Starting tomorrow. Nice to be able to spread the good news. Senior Art Critic's Home Base Q. Why is the senior art critic of the newspaper based in Berlin? A. This question was too good to pass up, as attention should be paid when the estimable Mr. Hoving, the longtime director of the Metropolitan Museum in New York, inquires about our arts coverage. (For those readers interested in Mr. Hoving, I commend one of John McPhee's classic profiles, "A Room Full of Hovings"). Our senior art critic, Michael Kimmelman, has been based in Berlin for the past year, covering the European arts and cultural scene in a column called Abroad. Michael is an extremely versatile critic with extremely wide wingspan, strengths that were on display the many years he was based in New York. The change in venue was in no way a statement by The Times about the centrality of New York in the arts world. Rather, after more than a decade in New York, Michael and The Times were interested in setting before him a new challenge: to cover culture and the arts from abroad. He has done so brilliantly, whether writing about Picasso or Gaza. Still, when there is an important news development in the art world in New York, we rope Michael back in, as when he assessed the selection of the new director of the metropolitan, Thomas P. Campbell. And, we are hardly threadbare in the New York art world, with our excellent critics and reporters, Holland Cotter and Roberta Smith. How's Business? No, Really. Is Everything O.K.? Q. I am concerned to read that many newspapers are pulling staff from major cities, including Washington, D.C. This means that fewer sources than ever are actually on the spot reporting the news, which in turn means fewer points of view are being represented. And also that fewer watchdogs are working to keep politics and business transparent to the public. Since I live in rural Iowa, I don’t have any significant “paper” source of news available for home delivery, so I read The New York Times online every day. I feel badly that I am benefiting from your work without contributing any revenue to support that work. I did sign up for a Times Select program (I think that was the name) and was happy to pay, but that program got discontinued. I’m sure NYTimes.com has many far-flung readers such as myself. If you think of a way to have us pay our fair share, I would certainly be willing. Thanks for all the good work. Q. I ask my question to you particularly because having read your book on Anita Hill , I believe you have a deep understanding of the importance of quality reporting Advertisement I wonder what The New York Times has done to explore innovative ways to produce revenue to ensure that it survives in these troubled economic times and despite the growth of the Internet as a major source for news? As someone who grew up in New York City, I started reading The New York Times every day from the time I was 10, till I moved to West Virginia after college. I am delighted now to be able to read The Times on my computer. And I feel guilty not paying for my daily New York Times, because I believe in the paper and want to see it continue to exist, thrive and be able to keep quality investigative reporters on staff. Some suggestions that come to mind would be: 1. A button to click on that shows all the fashion ads from The Times. 2. Establish an endowment for certain types of reporting, just as colleges endow chairs. I for one would gladly contribute to a fund to keep quality investigative reporters on the Times staff. I am sure there are many other ideas that your staff is working on. Please report on what this might be. Q. I am wondering why The Times does not charge for access to its online site. I used to get the paper delivered, but now I view it online, for free. I know that other information portals charge, and I would have no problem paying. It seems to me that you are in the information business, rather than the paper business, and that giving it away, especially since The Times is the preeminent provider of news content, is, well, how should I say, selling your self short? Or perhaps selling your readership short? I am aware that the newspapers and magazines are under great financial stress, and I rue the day when the budgets at The Times get cut and news staff is let go. Your content is worth paying for, don't you think? Q. I wonder if the diminishing resources for hard news across the media could actually become a new source of revenue for The Times? For example, will other outlets offer to pay for reporting from your fully staffed Baghdad bureau? Q. Not sure if this is still open but the person who asked about the viability of The Times becoming a "curator" posed a too-specific question that imagines one possibility. The question that we all have is this: Given that The New York Times is an institution we all love, what is The Times doing to ensure its existence? For those of us who would hate to imagine the possibility that Rupert Murdoch might acquire The Times, this is an entirely reasonable question. So, what is The Times's plan? A. First, dear readers, let me again reassure you. I am touched by your questions, because they reveal that we share the same passion for the highest quality news-gathering and writing and believe that The Times is an irreplaceable institution in our society. I am interested that so many of you would happily pay for our journalism online, which doesn't surprise me and shows that you recognize The Times's singular place in journalism. Advertisement The business side of The Times is as passionately committed to protecting our core mission as any of the reporters, editors or Web producers who work on the news side, which is my domain. Our business colleagues have withstood far more painful cuts in staff but they do this in order to protect our journalism. The Sulzberger family, led by Arthur Sulzberger Jr., protects and expands our singular journalism. We are not retreating. Again, The Times is nicely profitable. And our journalism has never been more glorious. Of course, the steep decline of the economy coupled with secular changes in the newspaper industry present big challenges. But the business leaders of our company have always found ways to expand the reach of The Times, even in very bad economic times. They will continue to do so. Our business side colleagues are constantly studying new models and ways of delivering our journalism and I am sure they will be interested in some of your suggestions. Certainly, given that I was Washington bureau chief of The Times and spent 20 years in Washington as an investigative reporter, I am pained to see the cutbacks in the Washington news bureaus of other publications. (I must also confess that this has also created opportunity for The Times, as we've been able to selectively hire some of the very best talent from our competitors in large part because we have remained true to our ambitions). There has never been a greater need to hold the government accountable, especially with the huge new spending on the financial crisis. It is terrible that at this moment the collective muscle of journalism in Washington is being cut. Any Future for Journalism Students? Q. I am a journalism student at the University of Missouri, and a member of the editorial staff at The Maneater, the student paper at the university. First of all, I don't want to ask too many of the standard journalism student questions, but I just have to get one out there for your expert opinion — how scared should an aspiring print journalist be going into this industry? I haven't heard much about The Times slashing jobs, but what elements must a reporter possess to remain in a Times newsroom without worrying about filling out a resume for The Post? Also, as a regular Times reader, I see that this paper offers investigative pieces that seem unmatched by any other publication. I find myself stimulated when I read that paper every morning, not only because of the painstaking detail that the pieces usually offer, but also because I like to find ways to relate some of the stories to local issues here on campus or in the community and challenge my writers to find the right voices to make the pieces work. What I want to know is a few tips on how to increase some of the more investigative aspects of our reportage. A. As managing editor, I have made a big push to connect with student journalists and to encourage them to enter the profession, even in these hard times. I have worked with college-age journalists and know that, with the right guidance, they can do very high-quality enterprise reporting. The ability to dig deeply, to get the story behind the story, will always be valued in journalism and these are the skills that I have tried to teach. Certainly, with the ever-expanding platforms for the news, I encourage students to learn how to tell their stories in multiple ways, in print, online, in blogs, on video and in podcasts. But high standards for news-gathering and the courage to keep pushing for a story remain universal. Opening Front Page to Ads Q. Are times that bad that you need to run an advertisement on Page 1 of The New York Times? The relationship between sponsorship and content is complicated enough without sullying the first page of one of the last newspapers worth reading. A. The content of The Times is not influenced by advertising, which has long helped generate the robust revenues needed to support our journalism and keep our company profitable. We have high standards for our advertisers, who prize The Times as a place to display their products and services because of our quality readership, which is highly educated and affluent. We are also careful about the placement of advertising, precisely because our journalism is independent and not directly sponsored by any advertiser. Advertisement The Times resisted having an ad on the front page for a long time, although virtually all our competitors, including The Wall Street Journal, had them. In this challenging business environment, we need a healthy level of advertising, as well as our strong circulation base, to support the ambitions of our journalism. We opened our section fronts to advertising first, and found that the ads did not diminish the quality of our newspaper. We expect the same results with the front page ads. Too Kind to Rush Limbaugh? Q. Several months ago there was a long article in the Magazine section about Rush Limbaugh; I thought it was way too kind to him. I find it interesting that there is very little on-going criticism of Rush, Sean Hannity, Bill O'Reilly, Ann Coulter and people like this. I cannot figure out why people who have such a following seem to be isolated from criticism except from such Web sites as Media Matters. I would like to see a real analysis of the methods that they use, for example, Sean Hannity has program after program about Obama's "associations"; these all center on "questions." Hannity has plenty of resources; if there are questions, shouldn't he be investigating and answering the questions? Rush is left off the hook because he is "an entertainer." Since when don't entertainers have the tell the truth? A. There seems a suggestion behind your question that the job of The Times is to target for attack certain figures because of their ideology and prominence. The role of a great news organization isn't to make itself a combantant in the ongoing political food fights that unfold each night on cable and elswewhere. Our Rush Limbaugh magazine cover story was a rich, nuanced portrait of someone whose show has made him a large force over time at the interesection of news, politics, business and entertainment. You may have found it too kind because you would have preferred to read a partisan hatchet job. You won't find those in The New York Times. Looking Ahead Q. I am a student journalist with the ambition to one day report for The Times or a newspaper on its level. I've done internships, freelancing and such with metro dailies to try to make my way into the industry, but I can't help but fear that, after reading things like Romenesko or Michael Hirschorn's essay in The Atlantic, I'm attempting to claim a deck chair on the Titanic. I must say, though, that reading your previous responses have assuaged some of that worry. As a leader at The Times and a top mind in the newspaper industry, what do you think The Times will look like in a decade? What about the rest of the newspaper industry? A. Whether news is published in print, online or on some other device, this I know: Our society depends on a probling, healthy press and we will have this 10 years from now. As managing editor of The Times, I stand on the shoulders of lots of other great Times journalists who steered our company and news report through troubled waters. Every night when I leave, I walk by some of the cartoons that were published during the Pentagon Papers case. When the public needed to know the real history of the Vietnam War, The Times was there, risking everything, to publish. I was in the newsroom on election night 2000, when Executive Editor Joe Lelyveld shouted "Stop the Presses" when the Florida vote was uncertain, and I was part of a group of editors that deployed a mass of reporters to Florida to report for the next weeks on the stalemate. While I have been managing editor, since 2003, there hasn't been a big or difficult story where The Times hasn't gone after it with the necessary resources or muscle. In 10 years, our definition of quality news and our zeal and ability to deliver it to our readers will be the same. Go to Home Page »
Foreign   Corrections. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content Skip to navigation View mobile version The New York Times World|Corrections Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Supported by World Corrections JAN. 1, 2009 Continue reading the main story Share This Page Continue reading the main story An article on Wednesday about Egypt’s response to the Israeli assault on Gaza described their geographical relationship incorrectly. Gaza abuts northern Egypt, not southern Egypt. A version of this correction appears in print on , on page A4 of the New York edition with the headline: Corrections. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Continue reading the main story What's Next Loading... Go to Home Page » Site Index The New York Times Site Index Navigation News World U.S. Politics N.Y. Business Tech Science Health Sports Education Obituaries Today's Paper Corrections Opinion Today's Opinion Op-Ed Columnists Editorials Contributing Writers Op-Ed Contributors Opinionator Letters Sunday Review Taking Note Room for Debate Public Editor Video: Opinion Arts Today's Arts Art & Design ArtsBeat Books Dance Movies Music N.Y.C. Events Guide Television Theater Video: Arts Living Automobiles Crossword Food Education Fashion & Style Health Jobs Magazine N.Y.C. Events Guide Real Estate T Magazine Travel Weddings & Celebrations Listings & More Classifieds Tools & Services Times Topics Public Editor N.Y.C. Events Guide Blogs Multimedia Photography Video NYT Store Times Journeys Subscribe Manage My Account Subscribe Subscribe Times Insider Home Delivery Digital Subscriptions NYT Opinion Crossword Email Newsletters Alerts Gift Subscriptions Corporate Subscriptions Education Rate Mobile Applications Replica Edition International New York Times Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Movies   The Carpetbagger. Channels & Shows Home Search Culture Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Get behind the scenes of Hollywood’s awards season, with close-up looks at Oscar-nominated films and exclusive red-carpet access to the hottest actors, actresses and directors. Recent Episodes in The Carpetbagger The Carpetbagger Culture 3:34 Dressing ‘Inherent Vice’ The Carpetbagger Culture 3:01 Patricia Arquette Grows Into ‘Boyhood’ The Carpetbagger Culture 2:09 Sundance in Slow-Mo   Clothes and Character 2:56 Dressing the Hawkings   Clothes and Character 3:36 In ‘Selma,’ Trench Coats Amid Protests The Carpetbagger Culture 2:26 David Oyelowo and ‘Selma’ The Carpetbagger Culture 4:45 Common and John Legend Perform ‘Glory’ The Carpetbagger Culture 3:02 Patti Smith’s Cinematic Lullaby The Carpetbagger Culture 2:22 Big Eyes, Big Lies Show more videos from The Carpetbagger Most Popular 1 World A Dyeing Life 2 U.S. Copwatch vs. Cops: After Freddie Gray 3 Opinion Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics 4 Opinion I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked 5 U.S. Best of Obama's Correspondents' Dinner Speech 6 U.S. Haunted by Columbine 7 Opinion Manufacturing China’s Future 8 Opinion Fashion vs. Art 9 World Spinning Ice Circle in Russia 10 Food Coconut Cluster Granola © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Science   Red Lentil and Bulgur Kufteh. Advertisement Advertisement Recipes for Health By MARTHA ROSE SHULMAN JAN. 2, 2009 I adapted this recipe from an Armenian version that I found on the back of a packet of red lentils. Kufteh (Persian), köfte (Turkish) and kibbeh (Arabic) are round, walnut-sized patties usually made from pounded meat but sometimes from fish or vegetable pulp, which then is mixed with fine bulgur, herbs and spices. Serve this vegetarian version as an appetizer or a side dish. 1/2 cup red lentils, rinsed 2 cups water Salt to taste 1/2 cup fine or medium (#1 or #2) bulgur 3 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil 1/2 large or medium onion, finely minced 1 teaspoon cumin seeds, toasted and ground 1/2 bunch flat leaf parsley, finely chopped Aleppo pepper to taste (optional) Scallions, small romaine lettuce leaves, and lemon wedges for garnish 1. Combine the lentils and water in a large saucepan, bring to a boil, skim off any foam, reduce the heat, add salt to taste and simmer 30 minutes, or until the lentils are soft and most but not all of the water is absorbed. Advertisement 2. Place the bulgur in a bowl, mix with 1/4 teaspoon salt, and pour in the lentils with their liquid. Stir together, then cover and let sit for 30 minutes, until the bulgur is tender and has absorbed all the liquid. 3. Meanwhile, heat 2 tablespoons of the olive oil over medium-low heat and add the onion. Cook gently for 10 to 15 minutes, until golden and very tender. Stir often. Add the ground cumin and stir together for about 30 seconds, then stir into the lentils and bulgur. 4. Moisten your hands with water and knead the mixture in the bowl for 3 to 5 minutes. Each time it begins to stick to your hands, moisten them again, and this will moisten the mixture. If it seems very dry and crumbly, add a tablespoon of water. Stir in the remaining tablespoon of olive oil, 1/4 cup of the minced parsley, and for a spicier mixture add 1/4 to 1/2 teaspoon Aleppo pepper. Taste and adjust salt. 5. Moisten your hands and shape the mixture into walnut-size balls (about 1 inch). You’ll have to moisten your hands again whenever the mixture begins to stick to them. Place on a platter and sprinkle with the remaining parsley. Garnish with scallions, romaine lettuce leaves and lemon wedges, and serve, or chill for several hours. Serve cold or at room temperature. Yield: About 30 kufteh, serving 6 to 8 as an hors d’oeuvre Advance preparation: You can make these a day ahead and keep in the refrigerator. Approximate Nutritional Information per Serving: Amount Per Serving: Calories:121; Calories from Fat: 48; Total Fat: 5.4g; Saturated Fat: 0.7g; Cholesterol: 0mg; Sodium: 5mg; Total Carbohydrates: 14.6g; Dietary Fiber: 5.4g; Sugars: 0.6g; Protein: 4.3g (Nutritional information provided by calorie-count.com) See More » Go to Home Page »
Sports   Ravens Coach Draws More Interest. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content Skip to navigation View mobile version The New York Times Pro Football|Ravens Coach Draws More Interest Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Supported by Pro Football | Sports Briefing | Pro Football Ravens Coach Draws More Interest By NYTJAN. 2, 2009 Continue reading the main story Share This Page Continue reading the main story The Baltimore Ravens’ defensive coordinator, Rex Ryan, acknowledged that at least two teams — the Detroit Lions and the St. Louis Rams — had expressed interest in him, ESPN reported. “It’s good, but I don’t pay a lot of attention right now to head coaching jobs,” Ryan was quoted as saying. “We’re focused on winning, but I feel confident and hopeful that I can get one of these jobs.” The Ravens play at Miami in a first-round A.F.C. playoff game Sunday. Ryan interviewed last year for openings with the Dolphins and Atlanta Falcons. A version of this brief appears in print on , on page B10 of the New York edition with the headline: Ravens Coach Draws More Interest. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Continue reading the main story What's Next Loading... Go to Home Page » Site Index The New York Times Site Index Navigation News World U.S. Politics N.Y. Business Tech Science Health Sports Education Obituaries Today's Paper Corrections Opinion Today's Opinion Op-Ed Columnists Editorials Contributing Writers Op-Ed Contributors Opinionator Letters Sunday Review Taking Note Room for Debate Public Editor Video: Opinion Arts Today's Arts Art & Design ArtsBeat Books Dance Movies Music N.Y.C. Events Guide Television Theater Video: Arts Living Automobiles Crossword Food Education Fashion & Style Health Jobs Magazine N.Y.C. Events Guide Real Estate T Magazine Travel Weddings & Celebrations Listings & More Classifieds Tools & Services Times Topics Public Editor N.Y.C. Events Guide Blogs Multimedia Photography Video NYT Store Times Journeys Subscribe Manage My Account Subscribe Subscribe Times Insider Home Delivery Digital Subscriptions NYT Opinion Crossword Email Newsletters Alerts Gift Subscriptions Corporate Subscriptions Education Rate Mobile Applications Replica Edition International New York Times Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
U.S.   U.S.. U.S. Search slide shows All Multimedia » next 1 of 13 Bucking the Trend Sign In to E-Mail or Save This The economic meltdown in much of the country has been a boon to the 4,000 people who live in the Battle Mountain, Nev., area. The reason: They mine gold in Lander County, a mineral-rich area that is a major reason why Nevada, nicknamed the Silver State, is also the world's fourth biggest producer of gold. Photo: Brad Horn for The New York Times related Article: A Nevada Town Escapes the Slump, Thanks to Gold Home U.S. Log In Register Now Copyright   The New York Times Company Privacy Policy Contact Us Help Work for Us Site Map campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_personalized_isEDU_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/slideshow/yr/mo/day/us/0102-NEVADA_index.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/slideshow/yr/mo/day/us, position: Inv1
Business   Madoff Trustee Seeks Wide Power to Subpoena. Advertisement Advertisement By DIANA B. HENRIQUESJAN. 2, 2009 The trustee overseeing the bankruptcy of Bernard L. Madoff’s trading firm has made an urgent request to the court for unusually broad authority to subpoena witnesses and documents, citing the vast scale of what is alleged to be a $50-billion Ponzi scheme. While not unprecedented, the request from the trustee, Irving H. Picard, is far from routine, and it illustrates how much Mr. Picard’s burdens have expanded beyond a trustee’s traditional tasks of identifying assets and selling them to satisfy claims. Noting that “the debtor’s operations were allegedly a massive fraudulent enterprise,” Mr. Picard said he needed the authority to issue expedited subpoenas to investigate those allegations — and that his need was “most urgent.” The request was filed Wednesday amid new allegations that Mr. Madoff had been pulling in fresh investors — and at least $10 million in cash — within a week of his arrest on Dec. 11 on federal fraud charges. The trustee is just one of several investigators trying to determine what Mr. Madoff did with investors’ money. Federal prosecutors are conducting a criminal investigation, while the Securities and Exchange Commission continues its regulatory inquiry. Advertisement The S.E.C. is also conducting an internal examination of why it failed to respond aggressively to previous warnings about Mr. Madoff, going back several years. And the House Financial Services Committee will hold a hearing on Monday to explore the regulatory implications of the Madoff case, with a witness list that includes the S.E.C.’s inspector general. According to his lawyers, Mr. Madoff — free on a $10 million bond but confined to his Manhattan apartment — is cooperating with federal authorities. Few details have emerged about the case beyond those included in the earliest complaints: That Mr. Madoff’s sons questioned him on Dec. 10 about his plan to distribute several hundred million dollars in bonuses two months ahead of schedule; when confronted, he confessed that his business was a fraud whose losses could run as high as $50 billion. His sons promptly reported the confession to federal authorities, and their father was arrested the next day. In a case where so much remains unknown, the new complaint filed this week by one of Mr. Madoff’s final investors offers a small glimpse into his dealings with his customers in the days just before he was arrested. The accusation was made by a family corporation set up by Martin Rosenman, a resident of Great Neck, N.Y., and the president of Stuyvesant Fuel Service, a heating oil distributor in the New York area. According to his lawyer, Howard Kleinhendler of Wachtel & Masyr, Mr. Rosenman had been referred to Mr. Madoff by a friend who invested successfully with him over many years — “the usual story, unfortunately,” he added. Around Dec. 3 — about the time Mr. Madoff was expressing some concern to colleagues about getting $7 billion in redemption demands, according to other court filings — Mr. Rosenman called Mr. Madoff at his office, Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities. Mr. Rosenman wanted to invest $10 million with Mr. Madoff, according to the complaint, filed in federal bankruptcy court on Wednesday. Advertisement “Mr. Madoff stated that the fund was closed until Jan. 1, 2009, but that Mr. Rosenman could wire money to a BMIS account where it would be held until the fund opened after the New Year,” the complaint continued. The money was wired to a Madoff bank account at JPMorgan Chase on Dec. 5. On Dec. 9 — the day Mr. Madoff proposed the early bonus payments and two days before he was arrested — Mr. Rosenman was notified by the Madoff firm that his money had been received and invested. No record of that transaction has been found, Mr. Kleinhendler said. “We don’t think it happened — we don’t think any securities were bought or sold,” he added. “To the contrary, we think he was deliberately collecting money,” he continued. “He was trying to get more money in the door for this final distribution he wanted to make.” Although Mr. Madoff reportedly told his sons he had $100 million and $200 million to distribute, it is up to Mr. Picard, the bankruptcy trustee, to determine what assets can be recovered for the benefit of customers of the firm. Besides his investigative efforts, Mr. Picard is seeking a buyer for the separate proprietary and wholesale stock-trading operations that, before this scandal, were the foundation of Mr. Madoff’s reputation. Those operations have been suspended since the scandal broke, and Lazard Frères & Company has been hired by the trustee to help find a buyer for them. In an exclusive interview on Friday, Mr. Picard said he was hopeful that those stock-trading businesses would be sold quickly, “perhaps by the end of next week.” It is not clear what the businesses will fetch. Greg LaRoche of LaRoche Research in Providence, R.I., said that one rule of thumb would value them at about three times their net income, which would yield a price of about $200 million based on an audit from late 2007 — a substantial discount from the firm’s reported net worth of roughly $670 million at that time. Advertisement Other investment bankers were reluctant to put a price on the Madoff operations, citing the uncertain market environment and the cloud the firm is now under, although one said the range could be $200 million to $400 million. Mr. Picard was named bankruptcy trustee at the request of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation, the federal agency that oversees the liquidation of failed brokerage firms. On Friday, he sent SIPC claims applications to every customer who had an open account at Madoff within 12 months of the bankruptcy filing, regardless of when the customer last made a deposit or withdrawal. Even an investor who closed a Madoff account during the last year should be on the mailing list, he said. People who believe they had a Madoff account but who do not get a claims package can print out the documents from the trustee’s Web site, madofftrustee.com, or from the SIPC site, sipc.org. A version of this article appears in print on , on page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Madoff Trustee Seeks Wide Power to Subpoena. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Foreign   Australia Says No on Detainees, and Britain Is Reluctant. Advertisement Advertisement By MERAIAH FOLEY and MARK McDONALDJAN. 3, 2009 SYDNEY, Australia — Australia said Friday that it would not agree to American requests to accept more detainees from the prison at Guantánamo Bay, and Britain signaled reluctance to take in significant numbers of former inmates, underscoring the difficulties both the departing and incoming administrations in Washington face in trying to close the camp, which has stirred bitter controversy around the world. Australia’s acting prime minister, Julia Gillard, said the Bush administration had twice approached Australia about taking prisoners from the camp, at the American naval base in Cuba. “The Bush administration first approached Australia in early 2008 with a request to resettle a small group of detainees from Guantánamo in Australia,” Ms. Gillard said Friday in a statement. “After appropriate consideration, Australia declined to allow resettlement of that small group in Australia.” Early last month, the White House again appealed to Australia and “a number of other friends and allies of the United States,” she said, adding that the request had not come from President-elect Barack Obama. Mr. Obama, who is to be sworn in on Jan. 20, has pledged to close the camp. The Pentagon, in transferring three Algerian prisoners to Bosnia on Dec. 16, said some 250 inmates remained at Guantánamo. About 60 have been cleared for release but cannot be sent to their home countries, mostly out of concern that they would be tortured or persecuted. They are from countries including Algeria, China, Libya and Tunisia. Advertisement “Departure of these detainees,” the Pentagon said, “is subject to ongoing discussions between the United States and other nations.” If the 60 were resettled, the challenge of closing Guantánamo would be within sight. About 100 of the remaining detainees are Yemenis, who could be repatriated once American officials were satisfied that they would be properly monitored. The remaining detainees could be transferred to prisons in the United States. In early December, Portugal said it was willing to resettle some of the 60 cleared detainees and urged other European countries to accept some as well. A couple of weeks later, Germany said it would consider doing so if the camp were closed. On Friday, Britain reaffirmed its desire to see the camp close. So far Britain has secured the release of nine British nationals and four former residents of Britain. A Foreign Office spokeswoman, speaking on the condition of anonymity because of civil service rules, said that Britain would also seek the release of two other former residents, but that Washington had not asked Britain to take any more detainees. But she said Britain expected other countries to join in the effort. “We recognize that the United States will require assistance from its allies and partners” for Guantánamo to be closed, she said, adding, “We have been pushing for our partners to follow our lead.” Ms. Gillard, the Australian deputy prime minister who is serving as the acting prime minister while Kevin Rudd, the prime minister, is on vacation, was earlier quoted by the Australian news media as saying that the country would consider resettling detainees on a case-by-case basis, subject to “rigorous assessment.” But later Friday she said, “Notwithstanding that it is unlikely Australia would accept these detainees, given the fact that the Bush administration has formally approached Australia, the request demands proper consideration.” Australia, a close ally of the United States, has long been part of its military effort in Iraq, and Australian troops remain there. But Mr. Rudd’s center-left Labor Party has had its differences with the Bush administration. Before coming to power in 2007, Mr. Rudd was sharply critical of Guantánamo and called repeatedly for the repatriation of two Australians held there. The men have since returned to Australia. Go to Home Page »
Science   A New Cigarette Hazard: ‘Third-Hand Smoke’. Advertisement Advertisement By RONI CARYN RABINJAN. 2, 2009 Parents who smoke often open a window or turn on a fan to clear the air for their children, but experts now have identified a related threat to children’s health that isn’t as easy to get rid of: third-hand smoke. That’s the term being used to describe the invisible yet toxic brew of gases and particles clinging to smokers’ hair and clothing, not to mention cushions and carpeting, that lingers long after second-hand smoke has cleared from a room. The residue includes heavy metals, carcinogens and even radioactive materials that young children can get on their hands and ingest, especially if they’re crawling or playing on the floor. Doctors from MassGeneral Hospital for Children in Boston coined the term “third-hand smoke” to describe these chemicals in a new study that focused on the risks they pose to infants and children. The study was published in this month’s issue of the journal Pediatrics. “Everyone knows that second-hand smoke is bad, but they don’t know about this,” said Dr. Jonathan P. Winickoff, the lead author of the study and an assistant professor of pediatrics at Harvard Medical School. “When their kids are out of the house, they might smoke. Or they smoke in the car. Or they strap the kid in the car seat in the back and crack the window and smoke, and they think it’s okay because the second-hand smoke isn’t getting to their kids,” Dr. Winickoff continued. “We needed a term to describe these tobacco toxins that aren’t visible.” Advertisement Third-hand smoke is what one smells when a smoker gets in an elevator after going outside for a cigarette, he said, or in a hotel room where people were smoking. “Your nose isn’t lying,” he said. “The stuff is so toxic that your brain is telling you: ’Get away.’” The study reported on attitudes toward smoking in 1,500 households across the United States. It found that the vast majority of both smokers and nonsmokers were aware that second-hand smoke is harmful to children. Some 95 percent of nonsmokers and 84 percent of smokers agreed with the statement that “inhaling smoke from a parent’s cigarette can harm the health of infants and children.” But far fewer of those surveyed were aware of the risks of third-hand smoke. Since the term is so new, the researchers asked people if they agreed with the statement that “breathing air in a room today where people smoked yesterday can harm the health of infants and children.” Only 65 percent of nonsmokers and 43 percent of smokers agreed with that statement, which researchers interpreted as acknowledgement of the risks of third-hand smoke. The belief that second-hand smoke harms children’s health was not independently associated with strict smoking bans in homes and cars, the researchers found. On the other hand, the belief that third-hand smoke was harmful greatly increased the likelihood the respondent also would enforce a strict smoking ban at home, Dr. Winickoff said. “That tells us we’re onto an important new health message here,” he said. “What we heard in focus group after focus group was, ‘I turn on the fan and the smoke disappears.’ It made us realize how many people think about second-hand smoke — they’re telling us they know it’s bad but they’ve figured out a way to do it.” The data was collected in a national random-digit-dial telephone survey done between September and November 2005. The sample was weighted by race and gender, based on census information. Dr. Philip Landrigan, a pediatrician who heads the Children’s Environmental Health Center at Mount Sinai School of Medicine in New York, said the phrase third-hand smoke is a brand-new term that has implications for behavior. “The central message here is that simply closing the kitchen door to take a smoke is not protecting the kids from the effects of that smoke,” he said. “There are carcinogens in this third-hand smoke, and they are a cancer risk for anybody of any age who comes into contact with them.” Among the substances in third-hand smoke are hydrogen cyanide, used in chemical weapons; butane, which is used in lighter fluid; toluene, found in paint thinners; arsenic; lead; carbon monoxide; and even polonium-210, the highly radioactive carcinogen that was used to murder former Russian spy Alexander V. Litvinenko in 2006. Eleven of the compounds are highly carcinogenic. Go to Home Page »
Sports   Perfect Utah Rolls Past Alabama in Sugar Bowl. Advertisement Advertisement By RAY GLIERJAN. 3, 2009 NEW ORLEANS -- It is finally Utah's chance to chortle and have the last word and poke skeptics in the eye. The No. 7 Utes of the Mountain West Conference dismissed No.4 Alabama of the Southeastern Conference here Friday night in the Sugar Bowl, 31-17, to complete a perfect season. Afterward, they were ready to find an empty playground to prove themselves all over again against Southern California, Oklahoma, Florida, or whomever. "You tell us where to be, when to be there, and we will be there," Utah Coach Kyle Whittingham said. "We are the only ones standing right now with an unblemished record." Utah finished 13-0, the second time in five seasons the Utes have finished undefeated and capped off a season with a victory over a team from one of the major conferences that gets an automatic berth in the Bowl Championship Series. Utah was 12-0 in 2004 under the former coach Urban Meyer. Brian Johnson, Utah's senior quarterback, completed 27 of 41 passes for 336 yards and 3 touchdowns. Freddie Brown caught 12 of those passes for 125 yards in front of 71,872 in the Superdome. Advertisement The Utes lined up after the game to make their case as a prominent team, even if the final polls will not reflect that by making them No. 1. "Without question we are one of the best teams, if not the best team, in the country," Johnson said. The Utah players took offense to a comment made by Alabama Coach Nick Saban after the SEC championship game, when he referred to Alabama as the only team from a "real B.C.S. conference" to go undefeated in its league's regular season. Advertisement Saban apologized after the Sugar Bowl and said he did not mean to offend Utah's program, but it was too late. "The whole team knew about that," the senior defensive tackle Greg Newman said. "We came out here hungry, ready to go. It was no respect, a slap in the face." Utah darted out to a 21-0 lead with its no-huddle offense. In a breathless first possession, Utah gashed the Alabama defense in 1 minute 19 seconds and it set the tone. The Utes went 68 yards in five plays. Johnson completed 5 of 5 passes in the drive as his receivers won one-on-one matchups out of the spread offense. Receivers Bradon Godfrey, who is 6 feet 3 inches, and Freddie Brown, who is 6-4, brushed off the smaller Alabama defensive backs to snare short pass after short pass. Johnson finished the drive with a 7-yard touchdown pass to wide receiver Brent Casteel. Louie Sakoda's extra-point kick made the score 7-0, and the Alabama fans looked as stunned as their team. When John Parker Wilson, the Crimson Tide quarterback, threw an interception on the next Alabama possession, Utah struck again. On third down, Johnson completed a 30-yard pass to wide receiver David Reed, who outjumped the fifth defensive back of the Tide, Marquis Johnson, at the 2-yard line. Advertisement On second down from the Alabama 2, the Utes showed they were serious. Alabama's Terrence Cody, a 6-5, 365-pound nose tackle, was buried at the point of attack as Utah running back Matt Asiata bashed into the end zone. The news got worse for Alabama when left tackle Mike Johnson left the game in the first quarter with a right ankle injury and did not return. The Crimson Tide's third possession ended in a punt, and Utah went right back to work with a 7-play, 65-yard touchdown drive that took 1:57. Johnson passed 18 yards to Godfrey for a touchdown, and the extra-point kick made the score 21-0. Brown said after the game that Utah's receivers used audibles on their routes to look for holes in the defense and get some space between them and defenders, and that Johnson kept firing accurate passes. Alabama needed a big play to get back in contention, and it got one from its punt returner, Javier Arenas. Trailing by 21-3, Arenas returned a rushed kick 73 yards for a touchdown and the Tide trailed, 21-10. The Crimson Tide pulled to 21-17 in the third quarter after capitalizing on a Utah turnover, but the Utes had a response appropriate for an undefeated team. With the Crimson Tide and its crowd revved up, Utah went 71 yards for a touchdown and led, 28-17. Johnson threw a short pass to David Reed, who shook off the tackle of defensive back Kareem Jackson to complete a 28-yard scoring pass on third-and-10. Alabama was 12-0 and ascended to No. 1 in the country before it lost to Florida in the SEC championship game and again here Friday night. Advertisement The Crimson Tide played 16 freshmen, and many think they have just the fourth or fifth best talent in the conference and still have room to build. What hurt the Crimson Tide more than youth was the loss of two offensive linemen. Andre Smith, the All-American left tackle, was suspended by Saban for what multiple news media outlets are saying was improper contact with an agent. Then, in the first quarter, Mike Johnson, who moved from left guard to left tackle to replace Smith, injured his right ankle and did not return to the game. Alabama, which built its success this season on one of the best running games in the country, managed just 31 yards rushing. The Crimson Tide was averaging 196 yards per game running the ball. "We were fully prepared to stop the run and force Alabama to do something they don't like to do, which is pass," Utah cornerback Sean Smith said. For most of the game, Saban did not berate his team on the sideline for its spotty play, but he finally did erupt early in the fourth quarter at cornerback Marquis Johnson. Utah was backed up at its 2-yard line and faced third-and-9 when Johnson allowed the Utes' Brown plenty of room to catch a pass for 13 yards to get Utah out of the hole. When the Utes had to punt, Saban fumed again, this time at Arenas, who let a low punt roll dead at the Alabama 12-yard line. The Tide had squandered a huge field position edge, and it cost them its last chance at the game. Instead of being down 11 with a short field to go for a touchdown, the Crimson Tide had 88 yards to go without a running game to back off a marauding Utah defense. Any chance for a comeback ended. Utah's celebration started not long after, but the Utes know they can only celebrate being undefeated, not being named national champions. Advertisement "It would be asking a lot for our conference to get an automatic berth in the B.C.S. and get some of these big paydays to help recruiting and facilities and student welfare," Sakoda said. "But it's an easy argument to make after tonight. I know people are going to say why did Utah happen to beat Alabama, instead of saying Utah is a pretty good team." Go to Home Page »
Education   Education Life Saving Hotels the Trouble of Calling Around. It may be the digital age, but at many hotels employees at check-in counters still use a 20th-century system called the call around. Local hotels phone one another throughout the day, asking if rooms are full and what rates are charged. The answers help hotels determine whether to lower prices that night.  From left, Breana Sniezek, Marc Baumbach and Chris Geiss, the founders. The system is inefficient, says Breana Sniezek, a business student at the Rochester Institute of Technology who has worked in hotels for four years. Not to mention the annoyance of taking the calls from competitors. In 2007, she vented her frustration to Christopher Geiss and Marc Baumbach, friends at R.I.T. who were studying computer engineering. The two were eager to start a business, and created a private digital network that hotel managers could log in to at any time for the information. Their business plan won $2,000 in a competition sponsored by the Albert J. Simone Center for Innovation and Entrepreneurship at R.I.T., and the school of hospitality and management paid for a trip to Marriott headquarters in Washington, D.C., to conduct research. With help from the Rochester Hotel Association, the threesome got word out about their service, called Hotelproxy.com, and at least 25 hotels are now testing it. The founders of Hotelproxy.com are hoping to expand to another city soon, in between their regular jobs. Mr. Geiss and Mr. Baumbach now work at I.B.M. in North Carolina. Ms.Sniezek will be taking a position with Marriott International in February, after her graduation. Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers. New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse.
Foreign   Correction. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content Skip to navigation View mobile version The New York Times Middle East|Correction Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Supported by Middle East Correction JAN. 3, 2009 Continue reading the main story Share This Page Continue reading the main story An article last Sunday rendered a comment by Israeli foreign minister, Tzipi Livni, incorrectly. On NBC’s “Meet the Press,” she said, “We are targeting Hamas, we are not looking for civilians to kill,” and then added “More than that, during this military operation, we are trying to avoid any kind of civilian casualties.” She did not say, “We are targeting Hamas, we are not looking for civilians to kill more than that.” Continue reading the main story What's Next Loading... Go to Home Page » Site Index The New York Times Site Index Navigation News World U.S. Politics N.Y. Business Tech Science Health Sports Education Obituaries Today's Paper Corrections Opinion Today's Opinion Op-Ed Columnists Editorials Contributing Writers Op-Ed Contributors Opinionator Letters Sunday Review Taking Note Room for Debate Public Editor Video: Opinion Arts Today's Arts Art & Design ArtsBeat Books Dance Movies Music N.Y.C. Events Guide Television Theater Video: Arts Living Automobiles Crossword Food Education Fashion & Style Health Jobs Magazine N.Y.C. Events Guide Real Estate T Magazine Travel Weddings & Celebrations Listings & More Classifieds Tools & Services Times Topics Public Editor N.Y.C. Events Guide Blogs Multimedia Photography Video NYT Store Times Journeys Subscribe Manage My Account Subscribe Subscribe Times Insider Home Delivery Digital Subscriptions NYT Opinion Crossword Email Newsletters Alerts Gift Subscriptions Corporate Subscriptions Education Rate Mobile Applications Replica Edition International New York Times Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Movies   Movies. Movies Search slide shows All Multimedia » next 1 of 13 Benjamin, Old and Young Sign In to E-Mail or Save This A scene from "The Curious Case of Benjamin Button." For "The Curious Case of Benjamin Button," David Fincher, the film's director, worked with the special effects company Digital Domain to best achieve the backwards-aging process of the title character. Here Mr. Fincher and Ed Ulbrich, Digital Domain's executive vice president for production, discuss how Benjamin Button was built. Photo: Merrick Morton/Paramount Pictures related Movie Overview: 'Benjamin Button' Article: A Method Performance, All Right Home Movies Log In Register Now Copyright   The New York Times Company Privacy Policy Contact Us Help Work for Us Site Map campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_personalized_isEDU_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/slideshow/yr/mo/day/movies/20090104_BUTTON_SLIDESHOW_index.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/slideshow/yr/mo/day/movies, position: Inv1
Society   Irene Vallye, Quinn Martin Jr.. Advertisement Advertisement JAN. 2, 2009 Irene Vallye and Quinn William Martin Jr. were married Saturday at Bridgewaters, an event space in Manhattan. Robert J. Berson, the leader of the Ethical Culture Society of Northern Westchester, officiated. The bride and bridegroom, both 28, met at Washington University in St. Louis, from which they graduated, he cum laude. Mrs. Martin is a production coordinator at Van Dale Industries, a lingerie manufacturer in Manhattan. She is a daughter of Victoria Vallye and Igor E. Vallye of Riverdale, the Bronx. The bride’s parents work at the United Nations. Her father is a principal officer of the secretariat’s department of management, where he is involved in financing peacekeeping operations. Her mother assists in making computer and technology purchases at the joint staff pension fund. Mr. Martin is a senior stock research analyst at Arrow Capital Management, an asset management firm in Manhattan. He is a son of Jane Martin and Mr. Martin Sr. of Mequon, Wis. His father, who retired as a partner in the Milwaukee law firm Quarles & Brady, is on the board of the Minnesota Wild, a National Hockey League team. A version of this article appears in print on , on page ST12 of the New York edition with the headline: Irene Vallye, Quinn Martin Jr. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Sports   Manchester City Is Upset. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content Skip to navigation View mobile version The New York Times Soccer|Manchester City Is Upset Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Supported by Soccer | Sports Briefing | Soccer Manchester City Is Upset By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSJAN. 4, 2009 Continue reading the main story Share This Page Continue reading the main story Nottingham Forest won at Manchester City, 3-0, for the biggest upset in the third round of the F.A. Cup. Nathan Tyson and Rob Earnshaw scored in the first half for Forest, which plays in the League Championship. Manchester City is in the Premier League. A version of this brief appears in print on , on page SP4 of the New York edition with the headline: Manchester City Is Upset. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Continue reading the main story What's Next Loading... Go to Home Page » Site Index The New York Times Site Index Navigation News World U.S. Politics N.Y. Business Tech Science Health Sports Education Obituaries Today's Paper Corrections Opinion Today's Opinion Op-Ed Columnists Editorials Contributing Writers Op-Ed Contributors Opinionator Letters Sunday Review Taking Note Room for Debate Public Editor Video: Opinion Arts Today's Arts Art & Design ArtsBeat Books Dance Movies Music N.Y.C. Events Guide Television Theater Video: Arts Living Automobiles Crossword Food Education Fashion & Style Health Jobs Magazine N.Y.C. Events Guide Real Estate T Magazine Travel Weddings & Celebrations Listings & More Classifieds Tools & Services Times Topics Public Editor N.Y.C. Events Guide Blogs Multimedia Photography Video NYT Store Times Journeys Subscribe Manage My Account Subscribe Subscribe Times Insider Home Delivery Digital Subscriptions NYT Opinion Crossword Email Newsletters Alerts Gift Subscriptions Corporate Subscriptions Education Rate Mobile Applications Replica Edition International New York Times Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Travel   An Ancient Book Still Enthralls Kyoto. Subscribe Now Subscribe campaign: inyt2015_bar1_digi_usd_4L9UF -- 277474, creative: inyt2015_bar1_digi_buttononly_usd_4L9UF -- 406560, page: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/travel/0104-KYOTO.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/travel, position: Bar1 Log In Register Now Help More Slide Shows Travel Search Slide Shows All Multimedia » Close An Ancient Book Still Enthralls Kyoto « Previous 1 of 9 Next » Sign In to E-Mail The spirit of Murasaki Shikibu, author of "The Tale of Genji" abounds in Kyoto, which just celebrated the millennial anniversary of this epic romance that some consider the world's first novel. Left, a purification ceremony with period costumes at the Jonengu shrine. Credit: Ko Sasaki for The New York Times Related Article: Kyoto Celebrates a 1,000-Year Love Affair Travel Guide: Kyoto Home Travel © 2011 The New York Times Company Privacy Policy Your Ad Choices Contact Us Help Work for Us Site Map campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_personalized_isEDU_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/travel/0104-KYOTO.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/travel, position: Inv1
Arts   Correction. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content Skip to navigation View mobile version The New York Times Music|Correction Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Supported by Music Correction JAN. 4, 2009 Continue reading the main story Share This Page Continue reading the main story A music review on Dec. 22 about a concert featuring the soprano Julianne Baird, at the Rose Theater, misstated the given name of a violin soloist. She is Erin Keefe, not Eric. A version of this correction appears in print on , on page A4 of the New York edition with the headline: Corrections. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Continue reading the main story What's Next Loading... Go to Home Page » Site Index The New York Times Site Index Navigation News World U.S. Politics N.Y. Business Tech Science Health Sports Education Obituaries Today's Paper Corrections Opinion Today's Opinion Op-Ed Columnists Editorials Contributing Writers Op-Ed Contributors Opinionator Letters Sunday Review Taking Note Room for Debate Public Editor Video: Opinion Arts Today's Arts Art & Design ArtsBeat Books Dance Movies Music N.Y.C. Events Guide Television Theater Video: Arts Living Automobiles Crossword Food Education Fashion & Style Health Jobs Magazine N.Y.C. Events Guide Real Estate T Magazine Travel Weddings & Celebrations Listings & More Classifieds Tools & Services Times Topics Public Editor N.Y.C. Events Guide Blogs Multimedia Photography Video NYT Store Times Journeys Subscribe Manage My Account Subscribe Subscribe Times Insider Home Delivery Digital Subscriptions NYT Opinion Crossword Email Newsletters Alerts Gift Subscriptions Corporate Subscriptions Education Rate Mobile Applications Replica Edition International New York Times Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Business   The Times to Sell Display Ads on the Front Page. Advertisement Advertisement By RICHARD PÉREZ-PEÑAJAN. 5, 2009 In its latest concession to the worst revenue slide since the Depression, The New York Times has begun selling display advertising on its front page, a step that has become increasingly common across the newspaper industry. The first such ad, appearing Monday in color, was bought by CBS. The ad, two-and-a-half inches high, lies horizontally across the bottom of the front page, below the news articles and a brief summary of some articles in the paper. In a statement, the paper said such ads would be placed “below the fold” — that is, on the lower half of the page. In the past, The Times has printed an occasional front-page classified ad — two or three lines of text at the bottom of the page. And a few years ago it began selling display ads — which are much larger and can combine images and text — on the front pages of sections inside the paper. But The Times did not sell displays on the first page of the first section, a move regarded by traditionalists as a commercial incursion into the most important news space in the paper. Most major American papers sell front-page display ads, including The Wall Street Journal, USA Today and The Los Angeles Times, but some others, including The Washington Post, do not. Advertisement The Times would not disclose the rates it charges for ads on the front page. Ordinarily, such space would be coveted by advertisers for its prominence, but it remains to be seen how well it will sell in the current climate, in which ad spending is plummeting. An ad on a paper’s front page “really stands out; it’s very attractive,” said Beth Fidoten, senior vice president and director of print accounts at Initiative, a media buying firm. Generally, she said, papers do not charge significantly more for that space than for other premium spots, “but the way it’s usually done is the advertiser has to make a significant commitment to multiple ads.” The New York Times Company, like newspaper publishers around the country, has taken several steps to cut costs and increase revenue in the last two years, including reducing staff through buyouts and layoffs, cutting the physical size of its pages, selling or closing subsidiaries and raising subscription prices. The company recently reported that in November, revenue from continuing operations fell 13.9 percent from November 2007; from January through November, it was down 7.6 percent. Advertising revenue at The New York Times Media Group, consisting of The New York Times, The International Herald Tribune, the radio station WQXR-FM and Baseline StudioSystems, an online database, declined 21.2 percent in November from the same month in 2007. A version of this article appears in print on , on page B3 of the New York edition with the headline: The Times Begins Selling Display Ads on the Front Page. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Foreign   Correction. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content Skip to navigation View mobile version The New York Times Asia Pacific|Correction Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Supported by Asia Pacific Correction JAN. 4, 2009 Continue reading the main story Share This Page Continue reading the main story An article on Monday about the growing tensions between India and Pakistan misidentified the office held by Asif Ali Zardari in Pakistan’s government. He is the president, not the prime minister. A version of this correction appears in print on , on page A4 of the New York edition with the headline: Corrections. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Continue reading the main story What's Next Loading... Go to Home Page » Site Index The New York Times Site Index Navigation News World U.S. Politics N.Y. Business Tech Science Health Sports Education Obituaries Today's Paper Corrections Opinion Today's Opinion Op-Ed Columnists Editorials Contributing Writers Op-Ed Contributors Opinionator Letters Sunday Review Taking Note Room for Debate Public Editor Video: Opinion Arts Today's Arts Art & Design ArtsBeat Books Dance Movies Music N.Y.C. Events Guide Television Theater Video: Arts Living Automobiles Crossword Food Education Fashion & Style Health Jobs Magazine N.Y.C. Events Guide Real Estate T Magazine Travel Weddings & Celebrations Listings & More Classifieds Tools & Services Times Topics Public Editor N.Y.C. Events Guide Blogs Multimedia Photography Video NYT Store Times Journeys Subscribe Manage My Account Subscribe Subscribe Times Insider Home Delivery Digital Subscriptions NYT Opinion Crossword Email Newsletters Alerts Gift Subscriptions Corporate Subscriptions Education Rate Mobile Applications Replica Edition International New York Times Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Movies   Critics' Picks: 'All About Eve'. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Critics’ Picks Critics' Picks: 'All About Eve' By Gabe Johnson | Jan. 5, 2009 | 2:56 With the awards season in full swing, A. O. Scott looks back at the 1950 classic that won the Oscar for best picture. Show More PlaylistUp Next in Critics’ Picks Next →   Critics’ Picks3:39 Critics’ Picks: ‘The Rules of the Game’   Critics’ Picks4:55 Critics’ Picks: ‘The Thin Red Line’   Critics’ Picks3:43 Critics’ Picks: ‘Pulp Fiction’   Critics’ Picks3:14 Critics’ Picks: The Manchurian Candidate   Critics’ Picks3:49 Critics’ Picks: ‘Hannah and Her Sisters’   Critics’ Picks3:09 Critics’ Picks: ‘The Public Enemy’   Critics’ Picks2:53 Critics’ Picks: ‘The Wild Bunch’   Critics’ Picks3:20 Critics’ Picks: ‘Detour’   Critics’ Picks3:29 Critics’ Picks: ’25th Hour’   Critics’ Picks2:36 Critics’ Picks: ‘Au Hasard Balthazar’ © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Science   The World, Grain by Grain. Subscribe Now Subscribe campaign: inyt2015_bar1_digi_usd_4L9UF -- 277474, creative: inyt2015_bar1_digi_buttononly_usd_4L9UF -- 406560, page: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/science/06sandmap.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/science, position: Bar1 Log In Register Now Help Home Page Today's Paper Video Most Popular Times Topics Search All NYTimes.com Science World U.S. N.Y. / Region Business Technology Science Environment Space & Cosmos Health Sports Opinion Arts Style Travel Jobs Real Estate Autos Published: June 9, 2011 The World, Grain by Grain Rob Holman, a coastal oceanographer from Oregon State University, has collected more than 860 samples of sand, from all continents. (Related Article) In order to view this feature, you must download the latest version of flash player here. Sarah Graham, Jonathan Corum/The New York Times | Send Feedback Rob Holman; Oregon State University Coastal Imaging Lab Sign In to E-Mail Home World U.S. N.Y. / Region Business Technology Science Health Sports Opinion Arts Style Travel Jobs Real Estate Autos Site Map © 2011 The New York Times Company Privacy Your Ad Choices Terms of Service Terms of Sale Corrections RSS Help Contact Us Work for Us Advertise campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_personalized_isEDU_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/science/06sandmap.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/science, position: Inv1
Sports   Crash Costs Vonn a Likely Victory. Advertisement Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSJAN. 5, 2009 Lindsey Vonn crashed just five gates before the finish Sunday on the icy Crveni Spust slalom course in Zagreb, Croatia, losing a likely victory and the overall lead in the World Cup standings. Maria Riesch of Germany finished in a combined time of 1 minute 58.69 seconds to win her third straight slalom and take the lead in the standings. Vonn led after the opening leg and was 0.94 faster than Riesch at the second intermediate time in the final run before hitting a gate and crashing. She was not injured. Riesch has 607 points to lead the overall standings for the first time in her career. Tanja Poutiainen of Finland, who finished seventh, is second with 543; Vonn is third with 530. Nicole Hosp of Austria, the 2007 overall champion, will be out for six weeks after injuring her left knee in a crash during warm-ups. Hosp, who also won the slalom title in 2007, broke the upper part of her shinbone and tore ligaments, the Austrian ski federation said. It said surgery would not be needed. ¶Bill Demong of the United States finished second in a Nordic combined World Cup event in Schonach, Germany, giving him his third podium finish of the season and moving him up to second in the overall standings behind the winner, Anssi Koivuranta of Finland. Demong, of Vermontville, N.Y., placed 18th in the jumping segment of the competition but was second fastest in the 10-kilometer cross-country race behind his teammate Johnny Spillane of Steamboat Springs, Colo. skiing A version of this brief appears in print on , on page D2 of the New York edition with the headline: Crash Costs Vonn a Likely Victory. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Business   Credit and Debit Cards: What You Need to Know. Advertisement Advertisement By JENNIFER BARRETTJAN. 6, 2009 A generation ago, it wasn’t all that unusual to be out for dinner with friends or at the register with a cart full of groceries and realize you didn’t have enough cash to cover the bill. But today, you’re likely to pull out a debit or credit card and not think anything of it. It’s hard now to imagine a time when those noncash options weren’t available — especially if you were born in the 1970s or later. Credit cards have been around since the 1950s, and debit cards were introduced in the mid-1970s. By 2006, there were 984 million bank-issued Visa and MasterCard credit and debit cards in the United States alone. Though the two types of cards may be used interchangeably, there are notable differences between them. Let’s start with debit cards. Debit cards are linked to your bank account so the money you spend is automatically deducted from your account. They provide a convenient alternative to cash, especially if you do a lot of shopping online. Debit cards can also help you budget. Use your card to pay your bills and day-to-day expenses and your monthly statement will provide a good snapshot of how much you spend per month and where it’s going. There’s another benefit as well: Unlike credit cards, your bank balance goes down with each debit card transaction, so you’re less likely to overspend. (Many banks offer “overdraft protection” that allows you to exceed your balance. But you’ll end up paying interest, and maybe extra fees, on the money you borrow from your overdraft account.) With so many benefits to the debit card, why use a credit card at all? There are three main reasons: You can spend more than you have — or postpone paying, at least — and you typically get better rewards and better protection than you do with debit cards. Advertisement Credit cards basically allow you to use someone else’s money (the card issuer’s) to make a purchase while you pay the money back later. If you do so within the billing period — generally, 15 to 45 days — you can avoid paying any interest on it. The problem arises, of course, when you don’t pay the balance in full and are charged interest as well. That can quickly add up. If it takes you two years to pay off a $500 balance, for example, and you’re being charged 18 percent interest, you’ll end up paying nearly $100 more in interest. If you use them responsibly though, credit cards can offer other advantages. They help build your credit, as long as you pay your bills on time. Some also offer rewards that you can use to get gifts, cash back or discounts for products, services and special events. They also provide more protection if someone steals your card or bank information. If you notice a fraudulent charge on your credit card account, you can call the card issuer, make a dispute claim, and the charge should be removed from your balance. But if thieves steal your debit card information and use it, it may take weeks for the bank to investigate your claim and replace the lost funds. In the meantime, you may have to deal with a dwindling bank balance or bounced checks. Federal law also protects you if you need to dispute charges on a credit card, but not if you use a debit card or other forms of payment. If you paid cash or used a debit card, the retailer already has your money. So you have a lot less leverage, and there’s no guarantee you’ll get that money back. But if you pay for something with your credit card and aren’t happy with the purchase, your card issuer can legally withhold payment from the retailer until they resolve the dispute, and you won’t be charged. Let’s say you’ve decided you want a credit card, which one should you get? The answer depends largely on whether you plan to pay off the balance each month. If you know you’ll probably carry a balance, look for a plain-vanilla card with no annual fee and the lowest annual interest rate available. (Any interest you pay on a carry-over balance will offset any perks you could get through a rewards card.) You can compare several low-interest credit cards at creditcards.com and bankrate.com, which both provide updated information on dozens of different cards. You can also apply online for cards through either site, but limit your applications to one or two to avoid hurting your credit. Be aware that card issuers can raise your interest rate after you’ve gotten the card. So check your monthly statements. (You should be aware, though, that the Federal Reserve has just passed rules that will take effect in mid-2010 limiting the card issuers’ ability to raise your rate, unless you’re late with a payment.) Call the card issuer if your rate has increased to try and negotiate a lower rate, or consider transferring your balance to a lower-interest card. (Billshrink.com lets you see how much more you could earn in rewards or save with a lower interest rate if you switched to various other credit cards, based on your credit score and how much you spend each year.) If you plan to pay your bill in full each month, seek out a card that provides rewards you actually want — whether that’s cash back, frequent flier miles or points redeemable for gifts. The interest rate shouldn’t matter, since you won’t be carrying a balance. But look for those with no annual fee. Bankrate.com and creditcards.com also provide comparisons of cards by the types of rewards offered, among other criteria. Generally speaking, if you plan to use your card a lot, cash-back programs may be the best bet. It’s easy to get the refund — either through a check or a credit on your account — and you can use that money for anything. Many large banks also offer debit cards with rewards, so it can be worth shopping around for them too. Creditcards.com also provides a comparison of different prepaid and debit cards, based on annual fees, related services and credit requirements. For most people, using both a debit card and credit card makes sense. The key is not to spend more than you have with either. If you can do that, you’ll be able to enjoy the benefits that each provide. Go to Home Page »
Food   Mark Bittman. Channels & Shows Home Search Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Mark Bittman, author of “The Minimalist” and “How to Cook Everything,” shares the kitchen with some of the most influential and inventive chefs from around the globe. Recent Episodes in Mark Bittman   Mark Bittman: California Matters 5:18 Chop Suey’s Next Wave   Mark Bittman: California Matters 4:29 A Walk on the Wild (Edibles) Side Mark Bittman 2:41 The Scramble: A Simple Greek Lunch Mark Bittman 4:12 The Rollout: An Ikarian Greens Pie Mark Bittman 2:32 Lorna Sass’s Pressure-Cooker Meatballs Mark Bittman 3:05 Claudia Fleming's Apple Crumb Crostata Mark Bittman 3:15 Danny Bowien’s Thanksgiving Pastrami Mark Bittman 2:38 André Soltner's Pumpkin Soup Mark Bittman 2:59 April Bloomfield's Clam Chowder Show more videos from Mark Bittman Most Popular 1 World A Dyeing Life 2 U.S. Copwatch vs. Cops: After Freddie Gray 3 Opinion Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics 4 Opinion I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked 5 U.S. Best of Obama's Correspondents' Dinner Speech 6 U.S. Haunted by Columbine 7 Opinion Manufacturing China’s Future 8 Opinion Fashion vs. Art 9 World Spinning Ice Circle in Russia 10 Food Coconut Cluster Granola © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Foreign   Spain Is a Battleground for Church’s Future. Advertisement Advertisement By RACHEL DONADIOJAN. 5, 2009 VALLADOLID, Spain — The Macías Picavea primary school hardly looks like the seat of revolution. But this unassuming brick building in a sleepy industrial town has become a battleground in an intensifying war between church and state in Spain. In an unprecedented decision here, a judge ruled in November that the public school must remove the crucifixes from classroom walls, saying they violated the “nonconfessional” nature of the Spanish state. Although the Roman Catholic Church was not named in the suit, it criticized the ruling as an “unjust” attack on a historical and cultural symbol — and a sign of the Spanish state’s increasingly militant secularism. If the judge’s ruling was the latest blow to the Catholic Church’s once mighty grip on Spain, the church’s response showed Spain to be a crucible for the future of church-state relations in Europe. For Pope Benedict XVI, who has staked his three-year-old papacy on keeping Europe Catholic, Spain, with its 90 percent Catholic population and rich history, represents a last hope in an increasingly irreligious continent. Advertisement That hope is quickly dimming. Since 2004, the Socialist government of Prime Minister José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero has legalized gay marriage and fast-track divorce, and it is seeking to loosen laws on abortion and euthanasia. But in response, the church and religious Catholics have been pushing back, seeking a greater voice in public life. The result is that the church is in a full-throated war with the government. As such, Spain represents not only the Catholic Church’s past in Europe, but perhaps also its future: an increasingly secular country with a muscular Catholic opposition, or what Benedict has called a “creative minority,” smaller in number but more ardent in faith. At stake is the vision of the country: Will Spain join the rest of secular Europe or stand as a final Catholic foothold? “I’d say that certainly there’s a worry; it would be naïve to deny it,” the Vatican spokesman, the Rev. Federico Lombardi, said of Spain. “It’s a critical point in the church’s confrontation against secularization in Europe and in the Western world.” For the Feast of the Holy Family, an estimated 158,000 people on Dec. 28 attended a Mass and rally in Madrid “in favor of the family.” The march appeared to be more low-key than past events. Before the 2007 elections, the church got into hot water when some of its rallies were seen as endorsing Mr. Zapatero’s right-wing opposition. Today, the Spanish prelates are trying hard to be “for the family” rather than against the government, but it is a delicate balance. Advertisement If the church becomes too hostile to the government, it could compromise the logistics and public financing required for Madrid to host the Vatican’s biennial World Youth Day in 2011, a choice of venue that underscores the church’s focus on Spain. In a recent interview in Madrid, the secretary general of the Spanish Bishops Conference, Msgr. Juan Antonio Martínez Camino, said it was important for the church “to use all the means at its disposal to promote and defend its fundamental rights.” He called the 2005 law legalizing gay marriage and adoption “very strange and very irrational and very unjust.” The implications are broader, since Spain, with its 42 million Catholics, remains a touchstone for Latin America. South America alone has 324 million Catholics, the world’s largest concentration. The church is also concerned that Spain could set a precedent for European Union legislation. The Vatican last week said it would reassess its relationship with Italian law, so as to avoid adhering to Italian and European Union social polices that it opposed. The church also fills a vacuum in the Spanish right. The center-right Popular Party is weak and has never been particularly engaged in religious issues. Today, one of Mr. Zapatero’s strongest and most persuasive right-wing opponents is a Rush Limbaugh figure: Federico Jimenez Losantos, a former Communist turned right-winger and a professed nonbeliever who hosts a morning radio show on La Cope, the country’s second most popular radio station — which happens to be owned by the Spanish Bishops Conference. With his harsh criticism of Mr. Zapatero’s policies, Mr. Losantos is inevitably seen as fanning the flames of church-state tensions. Advertisement Mr. Losantos acknowledged that his show “creates problems” between the bishops and the government. “But at the same time, a lot of regular people say, ‘Good thing there’s the Cope; at least someone is in the opposition.’ ” History looms large. During the Spanish Civil War from 1936 to 1939, left-wing Republican forces killed many clerics. But during Franco’s four-decade dictatorship, Catholicism was the official state religion. Until after Franco’s death in 1975, women could not open bank accounts without their fathers or husbands co-signing. Today, they hold many of the highest political offices in the country. “Spain changed very, very quickly,” said José María Contreras Mazarío, the director of religious affairs at the Justice Ministry. Today, he said, “Spain isn’t Catholic theoretically, culturally or politically.” In an increasingly multicultural society, he said, the government wants to revise its definition of religious liberty so all religions are effectively equal. Indeed, many see the church as a reactionary force trying to hold the country back. “The army evolved after Franco,” said Carlos Parrado, the president of the Association of Secular Schools, which filed the lawsuit asking that the crosses be removed from the Valladolid school. “The church never evolved in this way.” In many ways, Spain represents “a profound paradox,” said George Weigel, a Vatican expert and biographer of Pope John Paul II. “On the one hand, the ancient altar-and-throne alliance in Spain ill prepared the church to withstand the hurricanes of modernity, so when the winds hit after the death of Franco, just about everything collapsed.” “On the other hand,” he said, “it’s striking that many of the new and vital renewal movements and new Catholic communities emerged out of Spain.” Advertisement Opus Dei, founded in Spain in 1928, has 30,000 members in Spain. More than 70 percent of Spaniards baptize their children, even if far less than 30 percent of the public regularly attends Mass. In spite of its social policies, the Spanish government continues to direct significant state financing toward Catholic schools and hospitals. Some say the intense debate benefits both sides: the church can raise its voice, and the government can change the subject from the economic crisis. It remains to be seen how the debates will play out. Media reports said fast-track divorce had not taken off, but not because of church pressure. Times are tough, and divorce is expensive. An article on Tuesday about tensions between the secular government in Spain and the Roman Catholic Church, which regards Spain’s 90 percent Catholic population as an important base in its effort to promote Catholicism in Europe and beyond, misstated the number of Catholics in South America. It is 324 million, not 324,000. A version of this article appears in print on , on page A6 of the New York edition with the headline: For Vatican, Spain Is a Key Front in Church-State Battle. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Movies   Daily Baggage: Jan. 6. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Daily Baggage Daily Baggage: Jan. 6 By David Carr | Jan. 6, 2009 | 2:21 David Carr, the Carpetbagger, gives his own daily take on awards season news. Show More PlaylistUp Next in Daily Baggage ← PreviousNext →   Daily Baggage1:27 Daily Baggage: Jan. 30   Daily Baggage2:10 Daily Baggage: Jan. 29   Daily Baggage1:32 Daily Baggage: Jan. 28   Daily Baggage1:50 Daily Baggage: Jan. 15   Daily Baggage1:27 Daily Baggage: Jan. 14   Daily Baggage1:44 Daily Baggage: Jan. 13   Daily Baggage1:39 Daily Baggage: Jan. 12   Daily Baggage1:23 Daily Baggage: Jan. 9   Daily Baggage1:53 Daily Baggage: Jan. 8   Daily Baggage2:13 Daily Baggage: Jan. 7   Now Playing Daily Baggage2:21 Daily Baggage: Jan. 6   Daily Baggage1:40 Daily Baggage: Jan. 5   Daily Baggage Daily Baggage: Dec. 18   Daily Baggage Daily Baggage: Dec. 17   Daily Baggage Daily Baggage: Dec. 16   Daily Baggage Daily Baggage: Dec. 15   Daily Baggage1:00 Daily Baggage: Dec. 11   Daily Baggage1:25 Daily Baggage: Dec. 10   Daily Baggage1:32 Daily Baggage: Dec. 9   Daily Baggage1:47 Daily Baggage: Dec. 8   Daily Baggage1:38 Daily Baggage: Dec. 4 © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Science   Fish Braised in Chili Bean Sauce. Advertisement Advertisement JAN. 5, 2009 1 carp, trout, or sea bass weighing about 1 ½ pounds, cleaned, with head and tail still attached peanut oil For the Marinade: ¾ teaspoon salt 1-2 tablespoons Shaoxing rice wine or medium-dry sherry For the Sauce: 4 tablespoons Sichuanese chili bean paste 1 tablespoon finely chopped garlic 1 1/3 cup chicken stock 1 teaspoon white sugar 1-2 teaspoons light soy sauce 1 ¼ teaspoon cornstarch dissolved in 1 teaspoon cold water ½ teaspoon Chinkiang or black Chinese vinegar 3 scallions, green parts only, finely sliced 1. Use a cleaver or sharp knife to make 4 or 5 shallow diagonal cuts into each side of the fish, and to pierce its head (this releases more flavorsome juices). Rub the fish inside and out with the salt and Shaoxing rice wine and leave to marinate while you assemble the other ingredients. Advertisement 2. Season the wok, then heat 1/3 cup of oil over a high flame until smoking. Dry the fish with paper towels and fry it briefly on each side just long enough to crisp up the skin. (The fish can be briefly deep-fried instead if you have the oil handy.) Remove and set aside. Rinse and dry the wok. 3. Return the wok to a medium flame with 4 tablespoons of fresh oil. When it is hot, add the chili bean paste and stir-fry for 20 to 30 seconds until the oil is red and smells delicious. Add the ginger and garlic and stir-fry for another 20 seconds or so until you can smell their fragrance. Then pour in all the stock, turn up the heat, and bring the liquid to a boil. Season to taste with the sugar and soy sauce. 4. Gently place the fish into the wok and spoon some sauce over it. Turn the heat down, cover and simmer for 8-10 minutes until the fish is cooked and has absorbed some of the flavors of the sauce. Turn the fish once during the cooking time, spooning some more sauce over it. 5. When the fish is done, gently transfer it to a serving dish. Add the cornstarch mixture to the sauce and stir briefly until it thickens. Add the vinegar and scallions, stir a couple of times, and pour the sauce over the waiting fish. Adapted from "Land of Plenty" by Fuchsia Dunlop, reprinted with permission Go to Home Page »
Sports   Colt McCoy Helps to Rally the Longhorns Past the Buckeyes. Advertisement Advertisement By BILLY WITZJAN. 6, 2009 GLENDALE, Ariz. — Colt McCoy, the University of Texas quarterback with a gunslinger’s name and a game to match, spent most of Monday night being battered and beaten up by Ohio State. But he would not be beaten. McCoy picked himself up off the turf time and again, and in the end did the same with his team. He fired a 26-yard touchdown pass to Quan Cosby with 16 seconds left to lift the Longhorns to a 24-21 victory Monday over the Buckeyes in the Fiesta Bowl at University of Phoenix Stadium. It was the 10th time in his career that McCoy rallied the Longhorns to victory and it is hard to imagine any were more satisfying than this one. When Ohio State quarterback Todd Boeckman’s last-gasp pass landed on the turf near the 5-yard line, Texas players tossed their helmets into the air and poured onto the field. “We knew our guys had tremendous pressure on them and they just didn’t quit,” Texas Coach Mack Brown said. “It was a classic.” Advertisement The Buckeyes had taken a 21-17 lead with 2 minutes 5 seconds left when Daniel Herron burst through a huge hole in the left side of the line. It capped their unlikely rally from an 11-point fourth-quarter deficit. But as it turned out, it left too much time for McCoy, who was 41 for 58 for 414 yards. He threw two touchdown passes, ran for another score, was intercepted once, was sacked four times and was hit many more — including twice on hits that were ruled personal fouls. Wherever he was on the field, the action seemed to follow as he channeled his inner Brett Favre. “I don’t think he’s been hit like he was hit today,” Ohio State safety Malcolm Jenkins said. “But he’s one of the better quarterbacks in the nation. That’s not something that’s going to destroy his game. He did a good job of staying poised and making the throws he had to make.” McCoy was 7 for 10 on the final drive, including a 3-yard pass to James Kirkendoll on fourth-and-3 at the Ohio State 43 that kept Texas alive by a matter of inches with 38 seconds left. Two plays later, with the Buckeyes in an all-out blitz and all the receivers covered man-to-man with no help, McCoy hit Cosby with a slant. Safety Anderson Russell, who earlier had intercepted McCoy at the goal line, fell as he swiped at the ball. Cosby caught it, raced untouched and dove into the end zone. “I went for the swipe on the ball,” Russell said. “I knew when I didn’t get it, he was gone because there we were in all-out man and there was nobody there.” Cosby, a former minor league baseball player, caught 14 passes. The last one was the result of a conversation he and McCoy had earlier about what to do when the Buckeyes blitzed. “He kind of said over and over, if I catch the same look, give me a slant behind the linebacker,” McCoy said. “If he comes, you just make that miss and we will score. I gave him a good ball and he made the play.” Advertisement Whether it was enough for Texas (12-1) to lay claim that it should be national champion is another matter. Southern California, with its resounding defeat of Penn State in the Rose Bowl, and Utah, whose emphatic win over Alabama in the Sugar Bowl allowed it to finish the season as the only major college unbeaten team, had raised questions this week about whether the Utes and the Trojans should have been in the national championship game. Texas entered Monday night hoping to make an even better case. The Longhorns had beaten Oklahoma, 45-35, which nevertheless was paired opposite Florida in Thursday night’s title game. They hoped that with a strong showing, and perhaps a lackluster Oklahoma win over Florida, they may earn a share of the title by winning the Associated Press news media poll. In the final regular season poll, Texas had six first-place votes and Oklahoma had eight. If Florida loses, its 50 first-place votes will be there for the taking. The question for Texas was whether they did enough. Brown said they did, but his players were skeptical. “It’s very unfortunate,” defensive end Brian Orakpo said. “It’s style points and who can run up the score. Tonight was about two great teams who played a great game.” Though McCoy was outstanding, the Longhorns’ running was rendered moot and their point total was their lowest output of the season. And although their defense held Ohio State without a touchdown for three quarters, the other top 10 teams the Buckeyes played, Penn State and U.S.C., did so for four. For the Buckeyes, it was a matter of earning back some respect that had been squandered in back-to-back routs at the hands of Florida and Louisiana State in the last two national championship games. Ohio State also flunked an early season litmus test when it was whipped by U.S.C. Advertisement As good as McCoy was with his arm, the Ohio State freshman Terrelle Pryor was not bad with his legs — or his hands. He rushed 15 times for 78 yards, most of it in the second half, and also caught a 5-yard touchdown pass from Todd Boeckman that pulled Ohio State to 17-15 with 7:26 to play. Ohio State pulled ahead when its defense forced a three-and-out, and Boeckman — with a couple of long passes — led the Buckeyes deep into Texas territory. When Herron’s touchdown run put Ohio State ahead, it set off a frenzied celebration on their sideline. “He is strong-willed and he is a guy that’s very confident and he never thinks he is going to lose,” Brown said of his junior quarterback. “Tonight under a tremendous amount of pressure, he played as well as any quarterback can possibly play, especially the last drive. I mean, to me, that’s a Heisman-type drive.” A version of this article appears in print on , on page B11 of the New York edition with the headline: Texas Wins In Another Comeback By McCoy. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
U.S.   Coal Ash Spill Raises Broader Questions. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos U.S. Coal Ash Spill Raises Broader Questions By Rob Harris | Jan. 7, 2009 | 5:16 A billion gallons of coal ash breached a holding pond at a Tennessee power plant, reigniting a debate over the safety of the byproduct of clean coal technology. Show More PlaylistUp Next in U.S. Next →   Business1:31 Fiat Chief on New Innovation Ideas   U.S. & Politics1:27 Obama Introduces New Tax Rules   U.S. & Politics0:28 Suspect Arrested in Maryland Shootings   U.S. & Politics1:01 Shooting at Maryland Mall   U.S. & Politics1:39 Obama on Trump’s Campaign   U.S.0:43 U.S. Concerned About Truce in Syria   U.S. & Politics0:33 Lawmaker's Removal Adds to Brazil's Turmoil   U.S.1:37 Gator Wrestling (Barefoot) in Colorado   U.S. & Politics1:06 Ban on Selling E-Cigarettes to Minors   U.S.0:22 Obama, Dancing With the Star (Wars) © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Arts   Corrections. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content Skip to navigation View mobile version The New York Times Arts|Corrections Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Supported by Arts Corrections JAN. 6, 2009 Continue reading the main story Share This Page Continue reading the main story A listing on Tuesday about new and returning television shows from this week through March misidentified the network that will show “Breaking Bad” and the date it returns. It will be shown on AMC, not FX, and its second season starts on March 8, not March 15. A version of this correction appears in print on , on page A4 of the New York edition with the headline: Corrections. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Continue reading the main story What's Next Loading... Go to Home Page » Site Index The New York Times Site Index Navigation News World U.S. Politics N.Y. Business Tech Science Health Sports Education Obituaries Today's Paper Corrections Opinion Today's Opinion Op-Ed Columnists Editorials Contributing Writers Op-Ed Contributors Opinionator Letters Sunday Review Taking Note Room for Debate Public Editor Video: Opinion Arts Today's Arts Art & Design ArtsBeat Books Dance Movies Music N.Y.C. Events Guide Television Theater Video: Arts Living Automobiles Crossword Food Education Fashion & Style Health Jobs Magazine N.Y.C. Events Guide Real Estate T Magazine Travel Weddings & Celebrations Listings & More Classifieds Tools & Services Times Topics Public Editor N.Y.C. Events Guide Blogs Multimedia Photography Video NYT Store Times Journeys Subscribe Manage My Account Subscribe Subscribe Times Insider Home Delivery Digital Subscriptions NYT Opinion Crossword Email Newsletters Alerts Gift Subscriptions Corporate Subscriptions Education Rate Mobile Applications Replica Edition International New York Times Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Business   Retail Chain Is Liquidating. Advertisement Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSJAN. 7, 2009 The discount retail chain Goody’s Family Clothing will begin liquidating its stores on Friday as the retailer becomes one of the year’s first victims of the worsening economy. Goody’s, based in Knoxville, Tenn., has 9,800 employees and 287 stores in the Midwest and South. It was uncertain what will happen to the company’s workers after the liquidation. Executives with the company are speaking with competitors about whether they would like to purchase some of the chain’s stores. Goody’s is owned by PGDYS Lending, which is managed by Prentice Capital Management. The move comes less than four months after the privately held retailer emerged from Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection after closing dozens of stores, a distribution center and a corporate office. A version of this article appears in print on , on page B2 of the New York edition with the headline: Retail Chain Is Liquidating. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Foreign   Corrections. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content Skip to navigation View mobile version The New York Times World|Corrections Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Supported by World Corrections JAN. 6, 2009 Continue reading the main story Share This Page Continue reading the main story A headline on Dec. 30 with an article about elections in Bangladesh referred imprecisely to the reason voters were returning to the polls “after two years.” Elections had been suspended for nearly two years under army-backed emergency rule; the last time citizens voted was not two years ago. (That occurred in 2001.) A version of this correction appears in print on , on page A4 of the New York edition with the headline: Corrections. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Continue reading the main story What's Next Loading... Go to Home Page » Site Index The New York Times Site Index Navigation News World U.S. Politics N.Y. Business Tech Science Health Sports Education Obituaries Today's Paper Corrections Opinion Today's Opinion Op-Ed Columnists Editorials Contributing Writers Op-Ed Contributors Opinionator Letters Sunday Review Taking Note Room for Debate Public Editor Video: Opinion Arts Today's Arts Art & Design ArtsBeat Books Dance Movies Music N.Y.C. Events Guide Television Theater Video: Arts Living Automobiles Crossword Food Education Fashion & Style Health Jobs Magazine N.Y.C. Events Guide Real Estate T Magazine Travel Weddings & Celebrations Listings & More Classifieds Tools & Services Times Topics Public Editor N.Y.C. Events Guide Blogs Multimedia Photography Video NYT Store Times Journeys Subscribe Manage My Account Subscribe Subscribe Times Insider Home Delivery Digital Subscriptions NYT Opinion Crossword Email Newsletters Alerts Gift Subscriptions Corporate Subscriptions Education Rate Mobile Applications Replica Edition International New York Times Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Movies   Daily Baggage: Jan. 7. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Daily Baggage Daily Baggage: Jan. 7 By David Carr | Jan. 7, 2009 | 2:13 David Carr, the Carpetbagger, gives his own daily take on awards season news. Show More PlaylistUp Next in Daily Baggage ← PreviousNext →   Daily Baggage1:17 Super Bowl and Oscars, The Great Uniters   Daily Baggage1:27 Daily Baggage: Jan. 30   Daily Baggage2:10 Daily Baggage: Jan. 29   Daily Baggage1:32 Daily Baggage: Jan. 28   Daily Baggage1:50 Daily Baggage: Jan. 15   Daily Baggage1:27 Daily Baggage: Jan. 14   Daily Baggage1:44 Daily Baggage: Jan. 13   Daily Baggage1:39 Daily Baggage: Jan. 12   Daily Baggage1:23 Daily Baggage: Jan. 9   Daily Baggage1:53 Daily Baggage: Jan. 8   Now Playing Daily Baggage2:13 Daily Baggage: Jan. 7   Daily Baggage2:21 Daily Baggage: Jan. 6   Daily Baggage1:40 Daily Baggage: Jan. 5   Daily Baggage Daily Baggage: Dec. 18   Daily Baggage Daily Baggage: Dec. 17   Daily Baggage Daily Baggage: Dec. 16   Daily Baggage Daily Baggage: Dec. 15   Daily Baggage1:00 Daily Baggage: Dec. 11   Daily Baggage1:25 Daily Baggage: Dec. 10   Daily Baggage1:32 Daily Baggage: Dec. 9   Daily Baggage1:47 Daily Baggage: Dec. 8 © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Obituary   Richard Seaver, Publisher, Dies at 82. Richard Seaver, an editor, translator and publisher who defied censorship, societal prudishness and conventional literary standards to bring works by rabble-rousing authors like Samuel Beckett, Henry Miller, William Burroughs and the Marquis de Sade to American readers, died Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 82. The cause was a heart attack, said his wife of 55 years, Jeannette Seaver. For the past 20 years, Mr. Seaver and his wife ran Arcade Publishing, which has endured to become one of the most prominent independent publishers left in the United States, specializing in works by far-flung and underexposed authors from all over the world. But the mission of Arcade, to publish new voices that seemingly flout the wisdom of the marketplace, was one that Mr. Seaver began pursuing decades earlier. He was a Fulbright scholar in Paris, studying at the Sorbonne in the early 1950s, when he and several other scholars founded a literary quarterly, Merlin, which published, in English, early works by Eug? Ionesco and Jean Genet. In 1952 Mr. Seaver himself wrote an essay extolling the work of a young Irish novelist and then-unknown playwright, Samuel Beckett, that became instrumental in Beckett's finding an American publisher and champion. That was Barney Rosset, the publisher of Grove Press, who read the essay and sought out the young Mr. Seaver on a trip to Paris. Eventually, Mr. Rosset not only published Beckett. He also gave Mr. Seaver a job. Grove Press, founded in 1951, was a notoriously adventurous publisher that by 1959, when Mr. Seaver went to work there, had already given Americans a taste of Beckett, Ionesco and Antonin Artaud through its books and its literary magazine, Evergreen Review. (It had also published Beat writers like Jack Kerouac.) Shortly after Mr. Seaver's arrival, Grove published D. H. Lawrence's long-suppressed novel, ''Lady Chatterley's Lover,'' which was quickly banned from the mail; it took a court decision to declare the book not obscene and fit to be sold openly. During Mr. Seaver's dozen years at Grove -- he eventually became its editor in chief -- it mounted many similar challenges to decency statutes, publishing literary but taboo-challenging works like Henry Miller's autobiographical sex odysseys, ''Tropic of Cancer'' and ''Tropic of Capricorn''; Burroughs's semi-surreal travelogue of a homosexual junkie, ''Naked Lunch''; and Hubert Selby's novel ''Last Exit to Brooklyn,'' which dealt unflinchingly with drugs, homosexuality and rape. In 1965 Grove published a translation of ''The Story of O,'' a 1954 French novel about a woman who gives away her body in slavery to a man. The novel's pseudonymous author, Pauline R?e, kept her identity to herself until 1994, when she revealed herself to be a French journalist, editor and translator named Dominique Aury. The translator also went by a pseudonym, Sabine d'Estr? whom some literary sleuths long suspected was Mr. Seaver, though he never admitted to it. ''He wanted people to guess,'' his wife said in an interview Tuesday. ''But yes, he did it.'' Richard Woodward Seaver was born in Watertown, Conn., on Dec. 31, 1926. He graduated from the University of North Carolina. After a stint teaching high school, he took off for Paris and the Sorbonne, where he met the former Jeannette Medina, whom he married in 1953, and wrote a dissertation on James Joyce. Mr. Seaver served two years in the United States Navy before he and his wife moved to New York. Overall, Mr. Seaver translated more than 50 books from the French, including works by de Sade, Marguerite Duras and Andr?reton. He left Grove in 1971 and established his own imprint at Viking, where he published Octavio Paz, John Berger and Robert Coover. He was subsequently president and publisher of Holt, Rinehart & Winston's trade division before starting Arcade, whose backlist includes some 500 titles from authors in more than 30 countries. In addition to his wife, Mr. Seaver is survived by a sister, Joan Aichner of Raleigh, N.C.; a daughter, Nathalie, of Los Angeles; two sons, Alexander, of New Canaan, Conn., and Nicholas, of Crestone, Colo.; and four grandchildren. In a recently completed memoir, Mr. Seaver recalled the great literary moment of his youth. It was 1952, he was 25 and he had just finished reading two novels, ''Molloy'' and ''Malone Dies,'' which he deemed to be masterpieces. He wanted to say so. ''How do you write a meaningful comment on such rich, complex, still undiscovered work, without making a critical fool of yourself?'' he wrote. ''So make a fool of yourself.'' ''Out, damned modesty,'' he added. ''If conviction means anything, then write from the heart. Slightly less tentatively, I wrote: 'Samuel Beckett, an Irish writer long established in France, has recently published two novels which, although they defy all commentary, merit the attention of anyone interested in this century's literature.' '' PHOTO: Richard Seaver This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An obituary on Wednesday about Richard Seaver, a publisher who helped bring works by Samuel Beckett, Henry Miller, William Burroughs and the Marquis de Sade to American readers, misstated the date of his death. It was Monday, not Tuesday.    Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers. New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse.
Science   Fitness & Nutrition Spicy South Indian Cauliflower. Serve this chile-laced stir-fry with rice or other grains, and with flat Indian bread. 1 large cauliflower (1 3/4 to 2 pounds), broken into florets 2 tablespoons canola or peanut oil 1-inch piece of ginger, peeled, sliced and cut into thin slivers or minced 1 teaspoon cumin seeds, lightly toasted and crushed 1 to 2 serrano chiles, to taste, seeded if desired and minced 1 cup chopped fresh or canned tomatoes 2 teaspoons coriander seeds, lightly toasted and ground 1/4 teaspoon cayenne pepper 1/2 teaspoon turmeric Salt to taste 1/4 cup chopped cilantro 1 lime, cut in wedges, for serving 1. Place the cauliflower in a steaming basket above one inch of boiling water. Cover and steam for one minute. Lift the lid and allow steam to escape for 15 seconds, then cover again and steam for five minutes or until the cauliflower is just tender. Remove from the heat and refresh with cold water. Quarter the larger florets, and set the cauliflower aside. 2. Heat the oil in a large, heavy nonstick skillet or wok above medium heat. Add the ginger, cumin seeds and chiles, and stir-fry for one minute. Add the cauliflower and stir-fry for two to three minutes. Stir in the tomatoes, ground coriander, cayenne, turmeric and 1/2 teaspoon salt. Cook, stirring, for five minutes, until the tomatoes have cooked down and the mixture is fragrant. Taste and adjust salt. Stir in the cilantro, stir for another 30 seconds and then serve, passing lime wedges for squeezing. Yield: Serves 4 to 6 Advance preparation: Although this is best served right away, my son and I enjoy the leftovers for a couple of days. I also have made it a few hours ahead of time and reheated it on top of the stove. In this case, wait and stir in the cilantro just before serving. May 6, 2016 May 6, 2016 May 6, 2016 May 6, 2016 May 6, 2016 Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers. New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse.
Sports   Mangini to Be Cleveland Browns Coach. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content Skip to navigation View mobile version The New York Times Pro Football|Mangini to Be Cleveland Browns Coach Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Supported by Pro Football Mangini to Be Cleveland Browns Coach By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSJAN. 7, 2009 Continue reading the main story Share This Page Continue reading the main story CLEVELAND (AP) -- The Cleveland Browns have agreed to hire Eric Mangini as their head coach, a person with knowledge of the negotiations told The Associated Press. Mangini, fired last week by the New York Jets, reached an agreement with the club Wednesday, said the person who spoke on condition of anonymity because Mangini's contract has not been finalized. Mangini is being represented by agent Ron Shapiro, who is Mangini's father-in-law. The 37-year-old Mangini began his NFL career as a ballboy with the Browns in 1994. He went 23-25 and made the playoffs once in three seasons with the Jets, who stumbled down the stretch to lose four of their last five and miss the playoffs after an 8-3 start. The Browns fired Romeo Crennel after the team went 4-12 this season. Continue reading the main story What's Next Loading... Go to Home Page » Site Index The New York Times Site Index Navigation News World U.S. Politics N.Y. Business Tech Science Health Sports Education Obituaries Today's Paper Corrections Opinion Today's Opinion Op-Ed Columnists Editorials Contributing Writers Op-Ed Contributors Opinionator Letters Sunday Review Taking Note Room for Debate Public Editor Video: Opinion Arts Today's Arts Art & Design ArtsBeat Books Dance Movies Music N.Y.C. Events Guide Television Theater Video: Arts Living Automobiles Crossword Food Education Fashion & Style Health Jobs Magazine N.Y.C. Events Guide Real Estate T Magazine Travel Weddings & Celebrations Listings & More Classifieds Tools & Services Times Topics Public Editor N.Y.C. Events Guide Blogs Multimedia Photography Video NYT Store Times Journeys Subscribe Manage My Account Subscribe Subscribe Times Insider Home Delivery Digital Subscriptions NYT Opinion Crossword Email Newsletters Alerts Gift Subscriptions Corporate Subscriptions Education Rate Mobile Applications Replica Edition International New York Times Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
U.S.   U.S.. U.S. Search slide shows All Multimedia » next 1 of 10 For Sale: The McWhite House Sign In to E-Mail or Save This For the past seven years, almost as long as President Bush has been in Washington, an Iranian-American home developer has lived in a scaled-down version of the presidential mansion in suburban Atlanta. But soon enough, change is coming to Fred Milani's replica of the White House, an outsized casualty of the national housing crisis. Photo: Erik S. Lesser for The New York Times related Article: Hard Times Find Replica Of White House for Sale Home U.S. Log In Register Now Copyright   The New York Times Company Privacy Policy Contact Us Help Work for Us Site Map campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_personalized_isEDU_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/slideshow/yr/mo/day/us/0108-ATLANTA_index.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/slideshow/yr/mo/day/us, position: Inv1
Washington   Richardson Withdrawal Hurts Obama’s Southwest Strategy. Advertisement Advertisement By ADAM NAGOURNEYJAN. 6, 2009 WASHINGTON — The withdrawal of Gov. Bill Richardson’s nomination as Commerce secretary was more than just a jolt to President-elect Barack Obama’s otherwise smooth transition. It was a setback for a less-remarked-on but politically significant aspect of the selection of Mr. Obama’s cabinet — the extent to which it reflects a marked attempt to consolidate Democratic gains in the Southwest, a crucial political target for Democrats as the party takes control of the White House. Mr. Obama’s advisers said that where cabinet officials came from was not the main factor in making these selections. But they said it certainly was one, an extension of the effort by Mr. Obama in the campaign to take advantage of changing demographic patterns to move states like Colorado, New Mexico, and Nevada into the Democratic column. “We are conscious of the political and demographic changes in the political Southwest, and these appointments are a reflection of the growing importance of the Southwest to the Democratic Party,” said Rahm Emanuel, Mr. Obama’s designated chief of staff. “It is not the reason they were made: But we are conscious of the benefits that can come from it.” Mr. Richardson, of New Mexico, was one of three prominent elected officials from that part of the country chosen for cabinet positions, joining Gov. Janet Napolitano of Arizona, Mr. Obama’s pick to lead the Department of Homeland Security, and Senator Ken Salazar of Colorado, his choice to be Interior secretary. Mr. Richardson withdrew in the face of a federal grand jury investigation into state corruption that he said risked slowing his confirmation at a time when Mr. Obama wants to move urgently to address the deteriorating economy; there is no indication that either of the other two nominations face any trouble. In an interview, Mr. Emanuel was quick to rattle off — apparently from memory — all the gains that Democrats had made in Congressional and Senate seats in that section of the country over the past four years. And in November, in one of the more politically significant outcomes of the election, Mr. Obama won Nevada, Colorado and New Mexico after making a huge effort there. And there is reason to believe that he might have won Arizona as well, were it not for the fact that his opponent was Senator John McCain of Arizona. Advertisement There is a regional logic to the picks. As Interior secretary, Mr. Salazar will be in a position of obvious interest to Western states like Colorado, and can draw on long experience with land and conservation issues. Ms. Napolitano’s experience as a border state governor could serve her and the new administration well when it comes to one of the most politically sensitive issues in her portfolio as Homeland Security chief, illegal immigration. Mr. Emanuel disputed the notion that the Richardson withdrawal represented a setback to this strategy. But Mr. Emanuel would give no clue about who the incoming Obama administration might be considering for the post, much less what part of the country the new nominee would come from. More than that, he would not entertain questions about whether the Obama administration’s eagerness to get Mr. Richardson into the Obama cabinet might have contributed to what appeared to be an uncharacteristic laxness in what has, for the most part, been a very rigorous and disciplined vetting operation. The existence of the grand jury investigation in New Mexico was hardly a secret, and Mr. Richardson’s view of it — that he was not implicated in the investigation in any way — has not changed. The sop-to-the-Southwest angle was just one of several reasons why Mr. Obama might have been eager to get Mr. Richardson into the cabinet: Mr. Richardson is Hispanic and gave Mr. Obama a crucial endorsement during the primary process. And Mr. Obama was putting him in a position — Commerce secretary — that has frequently been used to pay back political supporters; Mr. Richardson had hoped to be tapped to be secretary of State. (One interesting tidbit: had Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton won the White House, her campaign chairman, Terry McAuliffe, had made clear that Commerce was the job he would have wanted; her husband, Bill Clinton, gave it to his Democratic National Committee chairman, Ron Brown.) Whatever happens now with the post, there is perhaps no better indication of how this new White House perceived the changing political map than to compare the Southwest with the South, the most Republican part of the country these days. There is, at least, arguably, just one cabinet nominee from the South — Ron Kirk, the United States Trade Representative. And Mr. Kirk is from Texas (which culturally is at least as much a part of the Southwest as of the Deep South) and the Trade Rep is not exactly a top-tier cabinet member. “While some have said, ‘Where is the South in the Cabinet?,’ I have said, ‘Look what we have done in the Southwest!’” Mr. Emanuel said. “And that says a lot about what was done here.” An earlier version of this article stated incorrectly that Governor Napolitano had been nominated to be attorney general. Go to Home Page »
Arts   Arts. Arts Search slide shows All Multimedia » next 1 of 15 One Writers Beginnings Sign In to E-Mail or Save This "The Fence," circa 1935. Karen Rosenberg writes: In the mid-1930s, as her writing career was just starting to take off, Eudora Welty thought she might become a photographer. Photo: Eudora Welty/Missisippi Department of Archives and History related Article: Portraits Taken by the Writer as a Young Woman (in Hard Times) Home Arts Log In Register Now Copyright   The New York Times Company Privacy Policy Contact Us Help Work for Us Site Map campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_personalized_isEDU_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/slideshow/yr/mo/day/arts/20090109_WELTY_SLIDESHOW_index.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/slideshow/yr/mo/day/arts, position: Inv1
Business   A Strange Macworld Expo. Advertisement Advertisement By DAVID POGUEJAN. 8, 2009 Well, it was a strange Macworld Expo this year. Steve Jobs, usually the looming presence over this four-day Mac/iPod/iPhone confab in San Francisco, was completely absent. Apple had a toned-down presence, and everybody knew that next year, the company won't be here at all, which made everyone wonder how long the event can survive. What the media wants to see is the annual Steve Jobs keynote speech, where Apple's latest products are often unveiled. So: no press throngs next year. The software companies in those hundreds of booths want to be near the mother ship, to bask in its glory and be seen by its admirers. So: fewer booths next year. And the regular Apple fans want to see that keynote, try out those Apple products and explore those booths. So: fewer attendees. The Expo will certainly take place next year--many exhibitors have already committed to return--and maybe all the training classes, social events and entertainment of the Expo will be enough to keep the event going for years, in some form. Otherwise, nobody knows. So how was Apple's final keynote presentation, given by marketing executive Phil Schiller? Since everyone's expectations for hot new announcements were about zero, it's safe to say that the keynote pretty much fulfilled expectations. There were no new category-busting products, no shockers. But there were some smaller, evolutionary gems. Here were three of my favorites. Advertisement First: an updated iPhoto (a picture organizing/editing/sharing program). Like Google's Picasa (originally for Windows, now for Mac, too), iPhoto offers face recognition. But iPhoto actually knows *whose* faces are in your photos--and can automatically group your photos by the subjects in them. It's not 100 percent accurate, of course; you're supposed to guide its artificial intelligence by clicking photos (to say "you guessed right--that's mom") or double-clicking them ("you guessed wrong--that's not mom"). But having iPhoto auto-create a folder full of son photos or wife photos or grandma photos would be plenty handy. Second: an updated iMovie '09. Now, longtime readers may recall that I absolutely hated iMovie '08. It wasn't iMovie at all; Apple completely junked the beloved iMovie that had served it well for years, and replaced it with something completely unrecognizable, riddled with feature holes. Some of those holes are filled in the new version (video effects, slow/fast motion, direct export to iDVD) and some aren't (no export back to tape, no volume-level "rubber banding"). Overall, though, iMovie '09 appears to be vastly more usable and complete than iMovie '08 was. Especially when you consider its killer new feature: software stabilization. This program can do an insanely great job of turning a bouncy, jerky handheld camcorder shot into something smooth and level (following a long period of analysis; let it run unattended while you go get lunch). I tried it on about five different clips, some of which were VERY unsteady. It works so well, a couple of observers complained that it looked unnatural; the floaty SteadiCam feeling is so noticeable, it doesn't look like home movies anymore. No big deal; you can double-click a stabilized clip to open up an intensity slider that you can adjust to back off the effect. In general, this feature could do wonders for the great majority of amateur videos. I wasn't able to try either iPhoto or iMovie with my own picture and videos--the software won't be ready until the end of the month. But they sure look juicy. Third cool thing: Apple is removing the copy protection from every single song on the iTunes store. You'll soon be able to copy your songs freely from computer to computer to TiVo to Sonos player to non-iPod player, without ever having to worry about authorizing computers, entering passwords and so on. Apple convinced the record companies to agree to this arrangement, but there was a price: iTunes has lost its simple 99-cents-a-song pricing. The record companies want to charge more for popular songs ($1.29), the same old price for medium-hot songs (99 cents), and less for oldy moldies to help wring some sales out of them (69 cents). The new pricing structure could help some people, and hurt others. Advertisement I spoke with Phil Schiller after his talk. I asked him if he could be any more specific about why Apple pulled out of the Macworld Expo--to the heartbreak of the Mac faithful who have loved making the pilgrimage to this event for 25 years. He said what the Apple press release said--that Apple stores introduce more people to Apple's products in a week than 100 Macworld Expos. Trade shows just aren't worth the effort and the money. But he also pointed out that having to come up with another dazzling show every January--a huge production, starring knock-'em-dead new products every year--was unsustainable. He noted that Apple marches to certain annual product cycles: the holiday season (Novemberish), the educational buying season (late summer), the iPod product cycle (October), the iLife development cycle (usually March), the iPhone cycle (June). January doesn't fit ANY of them. Today, I'm off to Las Vegas for CES, the Consumer Exhaustion Show. More to come! Go to Home Page »
Foreign   Corrections. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content Skip to navigation View mobile version The New York Times World|Corrections Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Supported by World Corrections JAN. 7, 2009 Continue reading the main story Share This Page Continue reading the main story An article on Tuesday about tensions between the secular government in Spain and the Roman Catholic Church, which regards Spain’s 90 percent Catholic population as an important base in its effort to promote Catholicism in Europe and beyond, misstated the number of Catholics in South America. It is 324 million, not 324,000. A version of this correction appears in print on , on page A4 of the New York edition with the headline: Corrections. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Continue reading the main story What's Next Loading... Go to Home Page » Site Index The New York Times Site Index Navigation News World U.S. Politics N.Y. Business Tech Science Health Sports Education Obituaries Today's Paper Corrections Opinion Today's Opinion Op-Ed Columnists Editorials Contributing Writers Op-Ed Contributors Opinionator Letters Sunday Review Taking Note Room for Debate Public Editor Video: Opinion Arts Today's Arts Art & Design ArtsBeat Books Dance Movies Music N.Y.C. Events Guide Television Theater Video: Arts Living Automobiles Crossword Food Education Fashion & Style Health Jobs Magazine N.Y.C. Events Guide Real Estate T Magazine Travel Weddings & Celebrations Listings & More Classifieds Tools & Services Times Topics Public Editor N.Y.C. Events Guide Blogs Multimedia Photography Video NYT Store Times Journeys Subscribe Manage My Account Subscribe Subscribe Times Insider Home Delivery Digital Subscriptions NYT Opinion Crossword Email Newsletters Alerts Gift Subscriptions Corporate Subscriptions Education Rate Mobile Applications Replica Edition International New York Times Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Home   In Search of the Just-Right Desk. Advertisement Advertisement By PENELOPE GREENJAN. 7, 2009 “THE ideal recession desk,” said Reiko Gomez, a feng shui-oriented interior designer who has lately refocused her practice on recession-proofing the home, “would be one that makes you feel successful and abundant when you sit at it, without costing so much that you feel foolish for having spent the money.” I’d asked Ms. Gomez and others to think about the job of the domestic desk, given all that it’s being called on to do. Much has been made of the growing importance of the home office in the technologically enabled American household, and these days, as more and more jobs are lost, it seems likely to become more important still — a command center for job searches, freelance work and escapist surfing. Not that a home office is always a four-walled container for an elaborate workstation and built-ins — more often, in fact, it’s nothing more than a desk, or a desk-substitute. My own “home office” is a dinged-up old table in the living room with a stuck drawer and warped legs that wiggle their way out of their joinery every couple of days. I have long wanted something more, well, upright, figuring that a better-quality work surface might boost the quality of what’s going on up top. So I set out to try a number of new and old desks, capped the budget at $1,000 and sought professional advice along the way. West Elm (112 West 18th Street; 866-937-8356; westelm.com) was my first stop. Its longtime best seller is its Parsons desk, now offered in an olive-y green (“wheatgrass”) for $299. It’s a reduced version of the long white Parsons tables old-school fashion editors favored. My old boss, Carrie Donovan, the former style editor of The New York Times Magazine, had two, upon which she’d arranged shallow stacks of paper like a game of solitaire, each anchored by a weighty objet. I always loved the tidy, graphic landscapes. The West Elm Parsons desk looks less sturdy than Carrie’s arrangement, but at four by two feet, it is exactly the size of my lousy desk: a good thing, as it happens. I spoke to David Kirsh, a cognitive scientist at the University of California, San Diego, who studies how we customize our work spaces. In his mind, the best new desks are those that mimic the proportions of your old desk, because we tend to work the same way — distribute the same arrangements of piles, for example — regardless of what we’re working on. These piles are entry points to thought: if a desk is too small, and the piles shrink, we may work less effectively. Advertisement Of course, size is always an issue: I loved the look of a blackened steel correspondent’s desk ($1,080) at the Atlanta-based online store, Mothology (404-351-6484; mothology.com), but it was too diminutive, at about two-and-a-half-feet long, to stay in the running. The desk tops at Muji (455 Broadway; 212-334-2002; muji.com) in stainless steel ($208.76) are reminiscent of a classic Eames desk from 1952, but its legs are 27 inches high ($139.25), just a bit too close to the knees. This exercise was turning into a Goldilocks event. And size is why the Go Cart desk — just under four by two feet — appealed at CB2 (451 Broadway; 800-606-6252; cb2.com). At $149, its cost seemed recession-appropriate. But its mobility was worrisome, perhaps not the right quality in an unstable time. “This desk looks exactly like its name,” Ms. Gomez, the feng shui designer, cautioned. “It threatens to zoom off and leave you holding your laptop. The wheels give it a feeling of instability. I also don’t like the thin metal legs, considered ‘cutting chi’ in feng shui. You don’t want to swivel around in your chair and bump into those.” Perhaps I could work standing up, like the writer Philip Roth and Daniel Schatz, an attorney in Providence, R.I., both of whom favor hand-made desks from the Stand Up Desk Company (erols.com/standup; 301-657-3630). Mr. Roth, who has a bad back, writes on a computer and makes corrections on his printed-out work while standing up. Mr. Schatz’s back is just fine, but he said he gets bored sitting all the time. I wondered about wipeouts: the desk is angled, doesn’t stuff just tumble off? Turns out there’s a lip and a leather inset. In any case, these desks start at $2,000, out of my price range, and anyway they have a kind of Cotton Mather vibe that’s not entirely appropriate to an East Village living room. In the new Blu Dot store in SoHo (121 Wooster Street; 212-780-9058; bludot.com) the company’s Area 51 desk in gleaming tomato red sat spotlighted on a pedestal, accessorized only by a snappy turquoise Remington typewriter. The desk was named for the “secret” Nevada military base beloved by U.F.O. conspiracy theorists: “We thought it looked sort of alien-ish,” said John Christakos, one of the principals of the Minneapolis-based company. Mr. Christakos was candid about his concern that Area 51 was not the most evolved expression of a modern desk. “It’s elegant, but I don’t know that it’s a highly programmed object,” he said. “I don’t think it totally recognized the digital world we live in.” But I liked its sturdy, canted legs, its under shelf (good for shoving bills and papers out of sight) and its bright blue typewriter (which is not for sale). The Blu Dot desk is notable for its simplicity, its price (relatively affordable at $699) and its vibrant color. But could one work on a red desk? Leatrice Eiseman, a color forecaster and author of “Color: Messages and Meanings” (Hand Books Press; 2006), thought so. “I think it is a fabulous idea, especially in a home office, as it can add so much dynamism to a space by virtue of its intensity,” she said. “Red gets the adrenaline going — something we all need when we are feeling a bit brain dead.” Ms. Gomez was less enthusiastic. In feng shui, red represents money and fame, she said. That’s good, right? “The fact that the desk is steel and the paint is lacquer makes it very yang,” she continued. “Yin is soft, warm, female in nature. Yang is hard, bright, more male. That desk is super yang. This could be a good desk if you are in a highly competitive field and want to tap your inner alpha male.” If you’re in a creative, yin-leaning field — like writing, for example — Ms. Gomez suggested it would need some yin-ish elements around it, like a white shag rug. Advertisement LAST year, Herman Miller, the company whose last hit was the ’90s power seat, the Aeron chair, introduced three new desks for the home. Clean-lined and with expanses of white laminate, they are clearly connected, as Donald Albrecht, curator of art and design at the Museum of the City of New York, pointed out, to the company’s modernist DNA. In 2000, it had brought back the Eames classic desk ($1,249), made from birch veneer and stainless steel; in 2006, it exhumed the Nelson Swag Leg ($1,799), an elegant little writing desk designed in 1958. It has corralled both into its new home collection, called the Lifework Portfolio, which includes storage and which you can find at ABC Carpet & Home (888 Broadway; 212-473-3000; abchome.com). Sliding into each is like time travel. Both desks were conceived at a moment when the modern movement hoped to revolutionize the way people live at home, and they still read as optimistic objects rather than design clichés (as nearly every Eames chair does these days). George Nelson, the company’s midcentury design director, and Charles and Ray Eames, were “rethinking the domestic landscape,” said Mr. Albrecht, as something lighter, brighter and more flexible — more open — than it had ever been. The new pieces aren’t intended to revolutionize the way we live, but to support the revolution — that would be the digital one — that has already happened. The new desks have gutters at the back for cords and power strips, large surface areas for primary work (whatever is happening on the computer) and stepped areas, like an under shelf or a lip at the back for secondary work, which means places to put the mouse, the stack of bills and the cup of coffee. The prettiest of the three new desks is the Airia ($2,199), designed by Kaiju Studios, in Providence, R.I. Made from walnut and white laminate, it has rounded corners and tapered, angled legs, which make it seem animate, poised for action. “We were thinking about grand pianos,” said Cutter Hutton, one of its three designers, recently, “about something permanent you would have for your whole life.” The design also acknowledges the piling styles of most people — the Scruffies, as David Kirsh, the cognitive scientist, calls those of us whose desks are layered with clutter — which is to say it invites piling on its raised walnut lip. It was Ms. Gomez’s favorite desk: the rounded corners made it inviting; the raised bit at the back — the spot for the piles — gained her approval for its intention to keep the main area clear and open. “The idea is to have a big open space to work on,” she said, “so you can attract what you want.” But I clutched, partly because of its cost, but mainly, I suspect, because of a superstitious attachment to the familiar. Tom Krizmanic, a principal at Studios Architecture, a firm that has designed offices for Apple, Viacom, MTV and others, has observed similar behavior. He said the guys in charge often like to bring their old desks to their spanking new quarters, no matter how dinged-up or discordant with the new environment those desks might be. Mr. Krizmanic deduced that these chief executives are not just attempting to reproduce their prior organizational arrangements, to use cognitive terms; he thought there might be some totemic power to the old desks themselves. “Lawyers I’ve worked with tend to keep the desk they had when they made partner, no matter what era that was,” Mr. Krizmanic said. “I think it’s this idea of bringing things from the past into the future.” Advertisement Reflecting further, Ms. Gomez wondered if the best new desk for all of us might be something that’s just really sturdy. “Something you could build a fort out of and hide underneath,” she said, “if times get really tough.” A version of this article appears in print on , on page D1 of the New York edition with the headline: In Search of the Just-Right Desk. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Movies   The Carpetbagger. Channels & Shows Home Search Culture Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Get behind the scenes of Hollywood’s awards season, with close-up looks at Oscar-nominated films and exclusive red-carpet access to the hottest actors, actresses and directors. Recent Episodes in The Carpetbagger The Carpetbagger Culture 3:34 Dressing ‘Inherent Vice’ The Carpetbagger Culture 3:01 Patricia Arquette Grows Into ‘Boyhood’ The Carpetbagger Culture 2:09 Sundance in Slow-Mo   Clothes and Character 2:56 Dressing the Hawkings   Clothes and Character 3:36 In ‘Selma,’ Trench Coats Amid Protests The Carpetbagger Culture 2:26 David Oyelowo and ‘Selma’ The Carpetbagger Culture 4:45 Common and John Legend Perform ‘Glory’ The Carpetbagger Culture 3:02 Patti Smith’s Cinematic Lullaby The Carpetbagger Culture 2:22 Big Eyes, Big Lies Show more videos from The Carpetbagger Most Popular 1 World A Dyeing Life 2 U.S. Copwatch vs. Cops: After Freddie Gray 3 Opinion Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics 4 Opinion I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked 5 U.S. Best of Obama's Correspondents' Dinner Speech 6 U.S. Haunted by Columbine 7 Opinion Manufacturing China’s Future 8 Opinion Fashion vs. Art 9 World Spinning Ice Circle in Russia 10 Food Coconut Cluster Granola © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Science   Cooking Spaghetti With Roasted Cauliflower, Tomato Sauce and Olives Success! Would You Like to Start Syncing With Evernote?. Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times Perhaps because cauliflower is on the bland side and Mediterranean black olives have such a pronounced flavor, the two go beautifully together. In Italy, Greece and in North Africa, you find the triumvirate of cauliflower, tomatoes and olives in all sorts of dishes. Featured in: Cauliflower Shines In Winter.  Halal, Healthy, High Fiber, Kosher, Low Cholesterol, Cauliflower, Olives, Spaghetti By Martha Rose Shulman About 30 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 40 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/2 hours By Martha Rose Shulman About 55 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour Now, tell us more about what you like to cook so we can find recipes you might like. Check out your recipe box to get started. NYT Cooking recipes will sync to your Evernote account Evernote recipes will sync to your NYT Cooking Recipe Box
Sports   Sutter Gives Devils a Steady Presence Behind the Bench. Advertisement Advertisement By DAVE CALDWELLJAN. 8, 2009 NEWARK — Brent Sutter appears to have as much fun coaching the Devils as most of his predecessors did, which means he smiles as often as an undertaker. He is intense and detail-oriented, and he wants his players to be that way, too. The Devils have won 17 of 30 games since Martin Brodeur sustained an elbow injury in early November that is expected to keep him out for at least another month, and Sutter’s solemn persistence has been an important reason, his players say. But, perhaps surprisingly to outsiders, so has another factor: Sutter has built up enough familiarity with his players, and his players have built up enough familiarity with his style and his system, that he now feels they can be accountable to themselves. Sutter, 46, the fourth of six brothers who played in the N.H.L. and the former captain of the Islanders, has learned to let go, at times. He was seen the other day at practice gathering his players for a chalk talk, then sending them away with a big laugh. “You get this trust factor with your team,” Sutter said later. Despite his credentials as a player in the N.H.L. and a coach in the juniors, Sutter spent the 2007-8 season, his first as an N.H.L. coach, learning on the fly. The season started with nine road games and ended with a five-game playoff ouster by the Rangers. Advertisement Eleven games into this season, Brodeur was injured, and the Devils appeared to be doomed. But Sutter had apparently learned a lot about his players, and, perhaps more important, their personalities. He knew how to push them and where to fit them. “He learned the personality of the room — there are guys you can push certain buttons with, and guys you can’t,” said Jamie Langenbrunner, who has been the Devils’ captain since December 2007. “And I think it becomes that much more effective if you don’t hear the coach going off all the time. It loses its effectiveness.” After briefly replacing Brodeur with Kevin Weekes, Sutter began playing Scott Clemmensen in goal and stuck with him. Clemmensen has won 15 games and has posted a .920 save percentage, better than Brodeur’s before he was hurt. When John Madden, a veteran center, was injured last month, Sutter abandoned the idea of a checking line to match other teams’ top lines, figuring that his top offensive players could be just as good at checking as they were at moving the puck. “We have a little more depth, and I think he’s utilizing it, or using it in the right situations, and I think that’s helped the team a lot,” left wing Jay Pandolfo said. As a result, Sutter was able to roll his lines, finding even more time for his splendid top two lines, centered by Travis Zajac and Dainius Zubrus — both of whom had disappointing seasons under Sutter last season. “We know what he expects of us, no matter who’s in the lineup,” said Zajac, who has 28 points — only 6 fewer than all of last season. “And he believes that everyone can play against anyone. It’s helped out our lines. It’s led to more flow, more momentum.” Sutter could not find a spot last season for Zubrus, the team’s most prominent free-agent acquisition. Zubrus started the season as a center, was switched to left wing, then to right wing, then back to left wing. He scored 13 goals in 82 games last season. Advertisement Zubrus is now the center on a line with left wing Patrik Elias and right wing Brian Gionta, two of the Devils’ most creative players, and has 10 goals in 39 games. “What I like about playing center is that you’re always in motion,” Zubrus said. Devils defenseman Paul Martin said Brodeur’s absence had most likely caused the Devils to be more attentive to their responsibilities — Brodeur covered for a lot of mistakes — but they have not had as much to learn as they did a year ago. Martin said of Sutter: “He likes us to keep focus, and he won’t let us get too loose. If we win, we try to remember how we won. But he doesn’t need to establish himself here now. He means business, but he knows us as far as what we can and can’t do.” Sutter said that his job is to provide leadership and direction and to give his team its best chance to succeed. But he sounds as if becoming familiar with his players’ strengths and idiosyncrasies is vital when putting them in the right roles. “You always have something to fall back on,” he said. The Devils have not changed much over the years; they are still largely a team of savvy veterans who stick to a system that squeezes their opponents. The team’s willingness to listen comes in part from Sutter’s success as a player, when he won two Stanley Cups. “He’s a well-schooled coach who obviously played a lot of games in this league, and so there’s a high respect factor for him,” Brian Rolston said. “He wants things done right, and he demands that perfection. “But you come into a situation where you’re with a lot of veterans, and they’ve been in the league a long time and know what it takes to be successful, and you’ve got to adapt. I think he’s done that.” Go to Home Page »
Arts   Celebrating Buzz. Subscribe Now Subscribe campaign: inyt2015_bar1_digi_usd_4L9UF -- 277474, creative: inyt2015_bar1_digi_buttononly_usd_4L9UF -- 406560, page: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/arts/20090119_BUSBY_SLIDESHOW.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/arts, position: Bar1 Log In Register Now Help More Slide Shows Arts Search Slide Shows All Multimedia » Close Celebrating Buzz « Previous 1 of 4 Next » Sign In to E-Mail Busby Berkeley in 1932. Credit: The Kobal Collection/Film Society of Lincoln Center Related Article: The Dance Master With Kaleidoscope Eyes Home Arts © 2011 The New York Times Company Privacy Policy Your Ad Choices Contact Us Help Work for Us Site Map campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_personalized_isEDU_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/arts/20090119_BUSBY_SLIDESHOW.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/arts, position: Inv1
Business   Treasury’s Oversight of Bailout Is Faulted. Advertisement Advertisement By DAVID BARSTOWJAN. 9, 2009 In a report scheduled to be released Friday, the Congressional panel overseeing the $700 billion federal bailout has expressed growing concern about the effectiveness and execution of the rescue plan. A draft of the report obtained by The New York Times criticized the Treasury Department for its “shifting explanations” about the underlying purpose of the bailout, its failure to answer many of the panel’s questions and its failure to require financial institutions receiving bailout money to fully account for how they are using the public’s money. “The recent refusal of certain private financial institutions to provide any accounting of how they are using taxpayer money undermines public confidence,” the draft of the report said. “For Treasury to advance funds to these institutions without requiring more transparency further erodes the very confidence Treasury seeks to restore,” it said. The 45-page report also asserted that the Treasury, in defiance of what the panel claimed was Congress’s clear intent when it passed the bailout bill in October, had taken “no steps to use any of this money to alleviate the foreclosure crisis.” The Treasury declined to comment on the panel’s latest findings, with the bailout, known as the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP. “We can’t comment on a report that’s not been shared with us,” said Brookly McLaughlin, a spokeswoman for the Treasury. But in testimony to Congress and elsewhere, Neel T. Kashkari, the Treasury official overseeing the bailout, has repeatedly asserted that the rescue plan is in fact working as intended. While cautioning that its full effect will take time to register, he has argued that the rescue plan has already begun to reduce foreclosures while also providing crucial stability and liquidity to the financial system. “The most important evidence that our strategy is working is that Treasury’s actions, in combination with other actions, stemmed a series of financial institution failures,” Mr. Kashkari wrote last week in a letter to the Congressional oversight panel. Advertisement According to a running tally by The Times, the Treasury has already committed $359 billion of the $700 billion to banks, credit card companies, automakers and insurance companies, among others. The oversight panel’s latest assessments are likely to fuel the debate over how to spend the remainder of the bailout money. Yet they also come as members of Congress are discussing how to fashion a huge new stimulus bill that President-elect Barack Obama has said he hopes to sign soon after Inauguration Day, Jan. 20. Officials from the Obama transition team have said that the cost of the stimulus package could well exceed the $700 billion bailout. The Congressional oversight panel has three Democratic appointees and two Republican appointees. It is led by Elizabeth Warren, a Harvard law professor and an expert on bankruptcy and credit card issues. A spokesman for the panel declined to comment on the draft report. The preliminary report raises new questions about the single biggest component of the bailout, the Capital Purchase Program, under which the government has invested tax dollars into scores of banks it judges to be healthy. According to the Treasury, the government has injected $177.5 billion in bailout money into 214 financial institutions in 40 states and Puerto Rico, as of Dec. 31. The report, though, questioned whether the Treasury could accurately assess the health of these banks, especially given the collapses of several banks that were once deemed to be healthy by federal regulators. A version of this article appears in print on , on page B3 of the New York edition with the headline: Treasury’s Oversight Of Bailout Is Faulted. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Foreign   Venezuela: 2008 Inflation Was 30.9%, an 11-Year High. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content Skip to navigation View mobile version The New York Times Americas|Venezuela: 2008 Inflation Was 30.9%, an 11-Year High Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Supported by Americas | World Briefing | The Americas Venezuela: 2008 Inflation Was 30.9%, an 11-Year High By REUTERSJAN. 9, 2009 Continue reading the main story Share This Page Continue reading the main story Venezuela’s inflation rate reached 30.9 percent in 2008, an 11-year high, the central bank said Thursday. The rising price level is among the economic challenges facing President Hugo Chávez as the global financial crisis, and particularly falling oil prices, threaten to curtail growth. The central bank also said prices rose 31.9 percent in the capital, Caracas, the highest level since 1997, outstripping the 2007 figure, 22.5 percent. A version of this brief appears in print on , on page A6 of the New York edition with the headline: Venezuela: 2008 Inflation Was 30.9%,. An 11-Year High. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Continue reading the main story What's Next Loading... Go to Home Page » Site Index The New York Times Site Index Navigation News World U.S. Politics N.Y. Business Tech Science Health Sports Education Obituaries Today's Paper Corrections Opinion Today's Opinion Op-Ed Columnists Editorials Contributing Writers Op-Ed Contributors Opinionator Letters Sunday Review Taking Note Room for Debate Public Editor Video: Opinion Arts Today's Arts Art & Design ArtsBeat Books Dance Movies Music N.Y.C. Events Guide Television Theater Video: Arts Living Automobiles Crossword Food Education Fashion & Style Health Jobs Magazine N.Y.C. Events Guide Real Estate T Magazine Travel Weddings & Celebrations Listings & More Classifieds Tools & Services Times Topics Public Editor N.Y.C. Events Guide Blogs Multimedia Photography Video NYT Store Times Journeys Subscribe Manage My Account Subscribe Subscribe Times Insider Home Delivery Digital Subscriptions NYT Opinion Crossword Email Newsletters Alerts Gift Subscriptions Corporate Subscriptions Education Rate Mobile Applications Replica Edition International New York Times Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Movies   Daily Baggage: Jan. 9. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Daily Baggage Daily Baggage: Jan. 9 By David Carr | Jan. 9, 2009 | 1:23 The Bagger gears up for the Golden Globes, Sundance and more. Show More PlaylistUp Next in Daily Baggage ← PreviousNext →   Daily Baggage1:43 Daily Baggage: Feb. 4   Daily Baggage1:20 Daily Baggage: Feb. 3   Daily Baggage1:17 Super Bowl and Oscars, The Great Uniters   Daily Baggage1:27 Daily Baggage: Jan. 30   Daily Baggage2:10 Daily Baggage: Jan. 29   Daily Baggage1:32 Daily Baggage: Jan. 28   Daily Baggage1:50 Daily Baggage: Jan. 15   Daily Baggage1:27 Daily Baggage: Jan. 14   Daily Baggage1:44 Daily Baggage: Jan. 13   Daily Baggage1:39 Daily Baggage: Jan. 12   Now Playing Daily Baggage1:23 Daily Baggage: Jan. 9   Daily Baggage1:53 Daily Baggage: Jan. 8   Daily Baggage2:13 Daily Baggage: Jan. 7   Daily Baggage2:21 Daily Baggage: Jan. 6   Daily Baggage1:40 Daily Baggage: Jan. 5   Daily Baggage Daily Baggage: Dec. 18   Daily Baggage Daily Baggage: Dec. 17   Daily Baggage Daily Baggage: Dec. 16   Daily Baggage Daily Baggage: Dec. 15   Daily Baggage1:00 Daily Baggage: Dec. 11   Daily Baggage1:25 Daily Baggage: Dec. 10 © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Science   Gastroenterologist Shortage Is Forecast. Advertisement Advertisement By RONI CARYN RABINJAN. 9, 2009 The United States will face a severe shortage of gastroenterologists as the population ages and the demand for colorectal cancer screening increases, a health care consulting firm has projected. At current rates of cancer screening, the United States will need an additional 1,050 gastroenterologists by 2020, according to the study by The Lewin Group. If colorectal cancer screening rates were to increase by 10 percent, the nation would need as many as 1,550 additional gastroenterologists by that time, the firm found. Colon cancer is the nation’s second leading cancer killer. There are currently 10,390 practicing gastroenterologists in the United States, according to the report. The projections were reviewed by outside experts and commissioned by Olympus Corporation of the Americas, which manufactures cameras used to screen for colorectal cancer. Already several studies have documented a looming shortage of primary care physicians and geriatricians needed to treat the aging population. But fixing those shortages still may not improve colorectal cancer detection and treatment. Advertisement Primary care physicians do not provide specialized services like colonoscopies that can detect precancerous colorectal polyps, noted Dr. David A. Johnson, chief of gastroenterology at Eastern Virginia Medical School in Norfolk, Va., and a past president of the American College of Gastroenterology. “We know that one of the most cost-effective, preventive things we can do is colorectal cancer screening,” he said. “The more patients age, the more likely they are to have cancer and precancerous disease.” Current recommendations call for people who are at average risk of colorectal cancer to be screened beginning at age 50. But according to a 2006 survey by the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, only 60 percent of people ages 50 and older said they had been screened in accordance with the guidelines, the report noted. Other screening estimates are still lower, particularly for minorities. “The shortfall of gastroenterologists could limit the nation’s ability to implement national guidelines for [cancer] screening, particularly in underserved communities,” said Tim Dall, vice president at The Lewin Group and author of the study. Go to Home Page »
Sports   For Stoops, Another Frustrating Loss. Advertisement Advertisement By CONNOR ENNISJAN. 9, 2009 MIAMI GARDENS, Fla. — Amid the confetti that poured down onto the Dolphin Stadium turf and the euphoric Florida fans that celebrated the Gators' second national championship in three years, the frustrated Oklahoma Sooners marched off the field. Their latest attempt to win a Bowl Championship Series bowl game had ended in another defeat, a disturbing trend for a program that once counted winning big games as part of its DNA. Now Coach Bob Stoops, whose Big Game Bob nickname has transitioned from affectionate to sarcastic, must face questions about whether he has lost his touch on the sport's biggest stages. The Sooners' 24-14 loss to Florida in the B.C.S. national championship game Thursday night was their fifth straight in a B.C.S. bowl game and third in a row in the title game. "Everyone will have their opinions on it, that's fine," Stoops said. "In the end, I'll be glad to try it again next year. If that's the biggest burden I have to bear in my life, I'll be a pretty lucky guy." The Sooners fell short in their two biggest games this season. In addition to their loss to Florida, their 45-35 loss to Texas in the Red River rivalry was pointed to by Longhorns fans who thought their team deserved a spot in the national title game. Advertisement Stoops was viewed as a wunderkind when he led Oklahoma to a national championship in 2000, his second season with the team. He has restored the Sooners to an elite program, but his recent bowl futility includes losses to Boise State and West Virginia. Two sequences from this game will probably be relived. The first came midway through the second quarter with the score tied, 7-7. Oklahoma got the ball at the Florida 26 after an interception by Gerald McCoy. Three runs by Chris Brown brought up a third-and-goal from the 1. Oklahoma elected not to run inside behind its vaunted offensive line, choosing to run Brown outside. He was stopped for no gain. On fourth down, the Sooners ran a similar play and Brown was thrown for a loss of 2. On Oklahoma's next possession, an 11-yard pass from Sam Bradford to Jermaine Gresham gave the Sooners a first down on the Florida 6 with 10 seconds remaining. The Sooners called their final timeout despite the clock's being stopped by the first down. On the next play, Bradford's pass was intercepted and the half ended in a 7-7 tie. Bradford blamed himself, saying he tried to force a ball into coverage. He also said that Florida's coverage was not what he was expecting. "You know, those were big factors in the game," Stoops said. "Being down in the red zone in those two occasions or three occasions and end up with nothing." In the end, failing to score on two separate trips inside the 10 was too much for Oklahoma to overcome against Florida. For Stoops, it was another frustrating night. "We'll do our best to be trying again next year," he said, "and we'll keep going after them, if it's all the same to everybody else." Go to Home Page »
Travel   Beyond Haight-Ashbury's Hippie Culture. Subscribe Now Subscribe campaign: inyt2015_bar1_digi_usd_4L9UF -- 277474, creative: inyt2015_bar1_digi_buttononly_usd_4L9UF -- 406560, page: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/travel/0109-AMERICAN.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/travel, position: Bar1 Log In Register Now Help More Slide Shows Travel Search Slide Shows All Multimedia » Close Beyond Haight-Ashbury's Hippie Culture « Previous 1 of 16 Next » Sign In to E-Mail San Francisco's Haight-Ashbury neighborhood, the 1967 national capital of hippie culture, is a place of endearing contradictions. A place once known for throwing off the strictures of convention is now also working to preserve its past. Credit: Jim Wilson/The New York Times Related Article: In San Francisco, Where Flower Power Still Blooms Travel Guide: San Francisco Home Travel © 2011 The New York Times Company Privacy Policy Your Ad Choices Contact Us Help Work for Us Site Map campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_personalized_isEDU_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/travel/0109-AMERICAN.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/travel, position: Inv1
U.S.   At Charter Schools, a Dual Identity. Subscribe Now Subscribe campaign: inyt2015_bar1_digi_usd_4L9UF -- 277474, creative: inyt2015_bar1_digi_buttononly_usd_4L9UF -- 406560, page: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/us/0109-CHARTER.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/us, position: Bar1 Log In Register Now Help More Slide Shows U.S. Search Slide Shows All Multimedia » Close At Charter Schools, a Dual Identity « Previous 1 of 8 Next » Sign In to E-Mail Kindergartners at Twin Cities International Elementary School, a charter school in downtown Minneapolis founded by leaders of the city's large East African community. For some immigrant families, charter schools have become havens where their children are shielded from the American youth culture that pervades large district schools. Credit: Ben Garvin for The New York Times Related Article: Immigrants See Charter Schools as a Haven Home U.S. © 2011 The New York Times Company Privacy Policy Your Ad Choices Contact Us Help Work for Us Site Map campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_personalized_isEDU_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/us/0109-CHARTER.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/us, position: Inv1
Arts   UrbanEye: Notorious in Brooklyn. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos UrbanEye UrbanEye: Notorious in Brooklyn By Jeremy Beiler | Jan. 10, 2009 | 2:51 Melena Ryzik reports from the Brooklyn premiere of the Biggie Smalls biopic "Notorious." Related: article: Bringing Back a Dead Rapper, and the Tears Show More PlaylistUp Next in UrbanEye ← PreviousNext →   UrbanEye3:28 UrbanEye: Do the Right Thing   UrbanEye3:11 UrbanEye: American Theater Wing Gala   UrbanEye2:17 UrbanEye: MoMA Party in the Garden   UrbanEye3:35 UrbanEye: Party at the Waverly Inn   UrbanEye4:21 UrbanEye: Tribute to Tom Hanks   UrbanEye3:16 UrbanEye: 'Grey Gardens' Premiere   UrbanEye2:54 UrbanEye: The School of American Ballet   UrbanEye3:30 UrbanEye: The Tribeca Ball   UrbanEye4:08 UrbanEye: Memorial for Odetta   UrbanEye3:55 UrbanEye: Theater Over the Phone   Now Playing UrbanEye2:51 UrbanEye: Notorious in Brooklyn   UrbanEye3:22 UrbanEye: Clubbing for Christmas   UrbanEye UrbanEye: The McGarrigle Christmas Hour   UrbanEye3:37 UrbanEye: Alvin Ailey Gala   UrbanEye0:00 UrbanEye: The Moth Ball   UrbanEye0:00 UrbanEye: Guggenheim Gala   UrbanEye0:00 UrbanEye: Sundance in New York   UrbanEye0:00 UrbanEye: Chanel Mobile Art Pavilion   UrbanEye3:35 UrbanEye: The Country Music Hall of Fame   Culture3:07 UrbanEye: Carnegie Hall 's 118th Season   UrbanEye4:04 UrbanEye: Tribute to Maurice Sendak © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Business   Investment Tax Cuts Help Mostly the Rich. Advertisement Advertisement Off the Charts By FLOYD NORRIS JAN. 10, 2009 MORE Americans than ever before have learned firsthand the perils of investing in the stock market, as the value of retirement accounts like 401(k) plans plummeted over the last year. Never before has the pain of a bear market in stocks been spread as broadly in the United States as this one has, a fact that has intensified the economic impact of the collapse in share prices that began in late 2007. But while the pain of the bear market has been spread widely, the tax benefits of stock ownership have become more concentrated among the wealthy. That seeming paradox stems from the differing treatment of profits on capital gains, depending on whether the stock or other asset is held in a taxable account or a retirement account. Most Americans hold stocks, and stock mutual funds, in their retirement accounts, principally in 401(k) accounts. Those accounts are not taxed until the money is taken out, usually after retirement. But then, the money is fully taxed at ordinary income tax rates, regardless of whether or not it came from capital gains. Advertisement As a result, the reduction of the tax rate on long-term capital gains to 15 percent in 2003, and the accompanying reduction of the tax on most dividends to the same amount, provided no additional benefits to most Americans. But it produced substantial benefits for those who owned stocks in taxable accounts. A new study by the Congressional Budget Office traces the proportion of capital gains reported on tax returns of various income groups from 1979 through 2005, with the results shown in the accompanying graphics. In 2005, the latest data available, the top one-tenth of 1 percent of taxpayers — a group that included those with after-tax incomes of more than $1.5 million — reported $335 billion in capital gains, or just over half the total amount of capital gains. By contrast, the bottom 95 percent of the income distribution — those with incomes under $126,300 — had just $69 billion in capital gains, about 10 percent of the total. The well-off have always received most of the capital gains, of course. But the distribution has become more skewed in recent years. A generation earlier, in 1979, the first year for which data is available, the bottom 95 percent had 20 percent of the gains, and the top one-tenth of 1 percent had a little over a third of the gains. The accompanying chart shows the total amounts of capital gains reported each year, adjusted for inflation, in 2005 dollars. As it happens, in 2003, the first year of the new low capital gains tax rate, it provided no net benefit for the 60 percent of Americans at the bottom of the scale. As a group, they had net capital losses of $600 million. The budget office data also indicates that higher-income people received a similar large share of the benefits from the reduction in the tax rate on dividends. But that is not as clear because the data lumps dividend payments with interest payments. It is worth noting that a taxpayer needed much higher income in recent years to be a member of the most elite groups. Expressed in 2005 dollars, the after-tax income needed to make the 21st percentile rose 9 percent from 1979 through 2005, to $17,800. The income necessary to reach the 81st percentile climbed 36 percent, to $67,400, and the number for the 96th percentile leaped 57 percent, to $126,300. But to be among the top one-tenth of 1 percent, the amount needed soared 215 percent, from $486,500 to $1.5 million. And while in 1979, it took after-tax income of $1.8 million (in 2005 dollars) to qualify for the most elite group — the top one-hundredth of 1 percent — membership in that group in 2005 required income of $8.6 million, an increase of 365 percent. Floyd Norris comments on finance and economics in his blog at nytimes.com/norris. A version of this article appears in print on , on page B3 of the New York edition with the headline: Investment Tax Cuts Help Mostly the Rich. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe See More » Go to Home Page »
Foreign   Peru: Jailed American Transferred for Pregnancy-Related Treatment. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content Skip to navigation View mobile version The New York Times Americas|Peru: Jailed American Transferred for Pregnancy-Related Treatment Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Supported by Americas | World Briefing | The Americas Peru: Jailed American Transferred for Pregnancy-Related Treatment By REUTERSJAN. 9, 2009 Continue reading the main story Share This Page Continue reading the main story Lori Berenson, an American citizen serving a 20-year sentence in Peru for aiding leftist guerrillas, was transferred to a women’s prison in Lima on Friday to receive health care for a complicated pregnancy. Photo Lori Berenson was escorted in handcuffs by police as she was transferred to a different jail in Lima on Friday. Credit Martin Mejia/Associated Press Ms. Berenson, 39, who has been in jail for more than 13 years, is five months pregnant and has a back problem. She was arrested in 1995 on charges of being a leader of the Túpac Amaru Revolutionary Movement, a leftist insurgency active in Peru in the 1980s and 1990s. She married a former inmate in 2003. A version of this brief appears in print on , on page A7 of the New York edition with the headline: Peru: Jailed American Transferred for Pregnancy-Related Treatment. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Continue reading the main story What's Next Loading... Go to Home Page » Site Index The New York Times Site Index Navigation News World U.S. Politics N.Y. Business Tech Science Health Sports Education Obituaries Today's Paper Corrections Opinion Today's Opinion Op-Ed Columnists Editorials Contributing Writers Op-Ed Contributors Opinionator Letters Sunday Review Taking Note Room for Debate Public Editor Video: Opinion Arts Today's Arts Art & Design ArtsBeat Books Dance Movies Music N.Y.C. Events Guide Television Theater Video: Arts Living Automobiles Crossword Food Education Fashion & Style Health Jobs Magazine N.Y.C. Events Guide Real Estate T Magazine Travel Weddings & Celebrations Listings & More Classifieds Tools & Services Times Topics Public Editor N.Y.C. Events Guide Blogs Multimedia Photography Video NYT Store Times Journeys Subscribe Manage My Account Subscribe Subscribe Times Insider Home Delivery Digital Subscriptions NYT Opinion Crossword Email Newsletters Alerts Gift Subscriptions Corporate Subscriptions Education Rate Mobile Applications Replica Edition International New York Times Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Science   F.D.A. Mismanagement, Gaza’s Ambulance Runs and New Support for a Cholesterol Drug. Advertisement Advertisement By RONI CARYN RABINJAN. 9, 2009 Federal Scientists Allege F.D.A. Mismanagement A group of federal scientists has written a letter to the transition team of the incoming Obama administration complaining of widespread managerial misconduct in a division of the Food and Drug Administration, the Associated Press reports. The letter says that the scientific review process for medical devices at the F.D.A. “has been corrupted and distorted by current F.D.A. managers, thereby placing the American people at risk.” It was written on letterhead for the agency’s Center for Devices and Radiological Health and signed by nine scientists. Vytorin: Not So Bad After All? The F.D.A. is telling patients not to stop taking Vytorin even though a finding last year suggested the expensive combination pill may be no better than a cheaper generic drug, the Wall Street Journal reports. The F.D.A. was convinced by data showing Vytorin, which includes Zetia and Zocor, lowered LDL, or bad cholesterol, more than Zocor alone did. Data from the same study found that Vytorin and Zocor were no different in reducing blockages of neck arteries. California Doctors Must Take Up Fee Disputes With Insurers The California Supreme Court has ruled that emergency room doctors who think a patient’s H.M.O. underpaid them can’t charge the patient for the difference and have to negotiate with the insurer, The San Francisco Chronicle reports. Consumers hailed the decision but critics said it will impact medical care and encourage physicians to end affiliations with emergency rooms. A New Frontier in Organ Retrieval A Long Island man who donated a kidney to his wife says he wants it back now that they’re getting divorced, The Daily News reports. The man, neurosurgeon Dr. Richard Batista, donated the kidney in 2001 after a previous transplant failed. Gaza Ambulances on Horrific Journeys Paramedics taking wounded Palestinians out of the Gaza Strip into Egypt say the trip is a harrowing one through destroyed cities while dodging stray bombs and gunfire, USA Today reports. Since hospitals in the Gaza Strip are overflowing with patients, Red Crescent ambulances are taking the wounded from the conflict with Israel into Egypt. Go to Home Page »
Sports   For Resurgent Cardinals, Victory Lap Is in Order. Advertisement Advertisement By BILLY WITZJAN. 9, 2009 TEMPE, Ariz. — When Arizona Cardinals Coach Ken Whisenhunt made an about-face on his way off the field last Saturday and embarked on a spirited victory lap after his team’s first-round playoff victory against Atlanta, it was clearly an impromptu decision. Otherwise, Whisenhunt (pronounced WHIZ-en-hunt) might have gotten in shape for his dash or, as he later suggested, stationed an oxygen tank at the halfway point. By the time he finished, Whisenhunt felt more like Wheezenhunt. Such lack of planning is understandable. Victory laps, after all, are not planned occurrences here. Neither are football games in January, unless it is the Fiesta Bowl. Thus, the unexpected position the Cardinals find themselves in this week: preparing for another playoff game, on the road Saturday against the Carolina Panthers. The winner advances to the National Football Conference title game. For decades, the Cardinals have consistently been the most woeful franchise in the N.F.L. They had not been in the playoffs in 10 seasons, the longest absence of any team in the N.F.L., and the win over Atlanta matches their postseason victory total of the last 60 years. Advertisement As for the axiom about the three most important considerations in real estate: location, location, location? The Cardinals have been futile in Chicago, St. Louis and the Phoenix area, where they have spent the last 21 seasons. The years have been marked not only by losing seasons, but by an owner, Bill Bidwill, and his sons who have bungled football decisions, operated on the cheap, and done little to foster good will in the community. Advertisement So, the question now facing the Cardinals is whether this season represents a new beginning or an aberration. “The team has not had the kind of success that anybody wants,” said Michael Bidwill, the team’s president and the second oldest of the owner’s five sons. “What we do going forward is really going to set the tone.” The boisterous crowd at University of Phoenix Stadium last weekend was an encouraging sign. For years, the Cardinals have often felt as if they played at a neutral site against teams whose fans travel well, like the Cowboys, the Steelers, the Packers, the Eagles, the Raiders, the Bears and the Giants. Last Saturday, Cardinals fans waved white towels and generated plenty of noise. “We were kind of joking on the sideline,” Cardinals cornerback Ralph Brown said. “Like, whose fans are these?” Brown said the atmosphere was a surprise because in the previous week there was “no buzz” about the game. The Cardinals dispatched the star receiver Larry Fitzgerald to a public event to drum up ticket sales and needed two extensions from the N.F.L. to attain a sellout and thus prevent the game from being blacked out locally. This happened only when a pool supply company bought up the remaining tickets less than 24 hours before kickoff. Some of this indifference was because of the Cardinals’ dubious prospects. They had won the league’s worst division with a 9-7 record, had been routed by New England, Minnesota and Philadelphia in their final five games, and some suggested they were the worst team to ever qualify for the playoffs. Advertisement But much of it had to do with their history. “No question,” Whisenhunt said. “There’s a lot of history here that people judge today’s team by.” Two years ago, Whisenhunt was judging himself. When he interviewed for the Cardinals’ job, a year after he helped the Steelers win the Super Bowl as their offensive coordinator, he questioned Bidwill about the team’s commitment to winning. Bidwill answered by pledging the money Whisenhunt asked for to hire a strong staff, to overhaul the weight room and — after years of letting free agents walk — to retain the Cardinals’ top players. “They’ve been supportive,” Whisenhunt said. That support stems from a cash cow the Cardinals can now milk: their sleek, silver-skinned stadium, which opened three years ago in the suburb of Glendale. “It changed the way we can operate the team,” said Bidwill, who helped land a $154 million stadium naming-rights deal. The team’s revenue, $131 million in 2004, according to Forbes, jumped to $203 million last year. In that span, the value of the franchise has increased from $552 million, lowest in the N.F.L., to $914 million, 25th out of 32 teams, according to Forbes. When the Cardinals arrived from St. Louis in 1988, Arizona State’s Sun Devil Stadium was to serve as a temporary home until their new stadium was built. But the stadium’s backers were caught up in the savings and loan scandal and the Bidwills had to find an alternative. Then, in the early 1990s, the N.F.L.’s financial model began to change. Television money, which made up the majority of league revenue, continued to be split evenly among the teams. But teams were able to keep local revenue, derived from items like stadium naming rights, suite sales, corporate sponsorships, parking and local radio rights. Teams that built new stadiums saw these unshared revenue streams skyrocket. Advertisement Those with higher revenue could more easily afford to spend money on coaches and executives, who were not subject to the newly instituted salary cap. They would also have cash on hand to deliver larger signing bonuses. As more and more teams built new stadiums, the Cardinals fell further and further behind. “It always seemed like there were money constraints,” said Vince Tobin, who in 1998 coached the Cardinals to their only previous playoff win in Arizona, then watched as three cornerstones — running back Larry Centers, offensive tackle Lomas Brown and linebacker Jamir Miller — were allowed to leave as free agents. The Bidwills backed several stadium proposals, but the efforts never got off the ground. When a proposal to finance a stadium primarily with tourist taxes went on the ballot in 2002, it was a different campaign. The Cardinals provided most of the $2.5 million that financed the campaign, but it also counted on the political muscle of the Fiesta Bowl, which was concerned that without a new stadium it might cede its Bowl Championship Series status to Houston or Atlanta. The advertising campaign emphasized the financing mechanism, the new youth facilities that would also be built, the investment in baseball’s Cactus League and tourism. There was little mention of the Cardinals. “I said if I’m going to have a major role in the campaign, I don’t want the Bidwill name anywhere near it,” said Jay Smith, a Virginia-based political consultant who is a veteran of many Arizona campaigns. “With all due respect, I don’t want to see the face of Bill Bidwill, I don’t want him to attend the community meetings we’re going to have and I don’t want him speaking in public. I don’t think he’s a bad person, but he doesn’t exude a warm personality in public.” Bill Bidwill, whose father bought the team for $50,000 in 1932, is as quiet, reserved and well versed in football as his trademark bow tie would suggest. When Michael Bidwill, a former ball boy, left his job as a United States attorney in 1996 to become the club’s vice president, it signaled a new direction. “The dad is very close to the vest,” Tobin said. “It’s hard to talk football with him. Michael is much more engaged with people.” Michael Bidwill is widely described as smart, aggressive and cocksure. Whether that’s a good thing depends on which side of the table you sit. He has brought a level of professionalism to the organization and raised expectations, although one former Cardinals official described him as a barracuda. Advertisement The perception of the Cardinals around the league has slowly changed. There have still been dubious draft picks. And the Pro Bowl receiver Anquan Boldin is the latest in a long line of Cardinals upset that his play has not been reflected in his paycheck. But the Cardinals at least appear to be trying. “Everyone looked at Arizona as a lower-class organization,” said Brown, the ninth-year cornerback who began his career with the Giants and also played for the Browns and the Vikings. “They don’t care to win. They’re not going to play hard. As the years progressed, Arizona started to get better players, better coaching. It’s an organization that seems like they’re trying to win now.” The true test may lie in the months ahead. The Cardinals are reportedly a league-high $40 million under the cap for next season. They awarded Fitzgerald, their other Pro Bowl receiver, a four-year, $40 million contract last year. But Boldin, safety Adrian Wilson and defensive tackle Darnell Dockett want new deals; quarterback Kurt Warner and linebacker Karlos Dansby are free agents; and running back Edgerrin James says he will not return. One of the plums of free agency is the Ravens pass rusher Terrell Suggs, a former Arizona State star. It will be then, as much as Saturday, when the Cardinals will be provided another chance to run away from their past, to see whether they can make a habit of lapping the field. An article on Saturday about the rise of the Arizona Cardinals in the N.F.L. after years of poor play and questionable front-office decisions misidentified, in some editions, the man who bought the team for $50,000 in 1932. He was Charles Bidwill  not his son Bill, who is the current owner. The article also misidentified a former job held by one of Bill Bidwill’s sons, Michael, who is the team president. He was once a ball boy, not a bellboy. A version of this article appears in print on , on page D1 of the New York edition with the headline: For Resurgent Cardinals, Victory Lap Is in Order. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Arts   Arts. Arts Search slide shows All Multimedia » next 1 of 12 Redefining the Museum Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Holland Cotter writes: Three weeks ago, the Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles ran through its savings, and the billionaire art collector Eli Broad rode to the rescue. But more venerable and vulnerable institutions across the country are also struggling to stay afloat, with no bailouts in sight. Photo: Monica Almeida/The New York Times related Article: Museums Look Inward for Their Own Bailouts Home Arts Log In Register Now Copyright   The New York Times Company Privacy Policy Contact Us Help Work for Us Site Map campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_personalized_isEDU_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/slideshow/yr/mo/day/arts/20090111-COTT_index.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/slideshow/yr/mo/day/arts, position: Inv1
Business   Detroit Goes for Electric Cars, but Will Drivers?. Advertisement Advertisement By BILL VLASICJAN. 10, 2009 DEARBORN, Mich. — Inside the Ford Motor Company, it was called Project M — to build a prototype of a totally electric, battery-powered car in just six months. When it was started last summer, the effort was considered a tall order by the small team of executives and engineers assigned to it. After all, the auto industry can take years to develop vehicles. But Ford was feeling pressure from competitors, and decided it could not afford to fall behind in the rapidly expanding race to put electric cars in dealer showrooms. “Frankly, I think it’s a gamble not to do it,” William C. Ford Jr., the company’s executive chairman, said in an interview. “It’s clear that society is headed down this road.” Certainly, Ford and other carmakers are betting billions of dollars on this new direction, at a time when they can ill afford it and when Detroit is facing government scrutiny after the $17.4 billion bailout of G.M. and Chrysler. Advertisement Throughout the cavernous Detroit auto show hall, typically the high temple of brute horsepower, auto companies will be competing this week to establish their green and electric credentials. On Sunday, when the show opens, Ford will announce plans for its electric vehicle, including a goal to start selling them by 2011. These are risky bets. There are no guarantees that consumers — for all their stated concerns about global warming, dependence on foreign oil and unpredictable gas prices — will buy enough of them. They may balk, for example, at the limits on how far they can drive on a single charge. Advertisement But the companies could get some help from President-elect Barack Obama. He has said he is committed to promoting cleaner cars, and may propose incentives to encourage consumers and businesses to buy them. Ford plans to make only 10,000 of the electric vehicles a year at first — very few by Detroit standards — to test the market cautiously. Still, Mr. Obama’s interest, and the scope of projects by Ford and others, is convincing some environmentalists that the industry is serious about electric cars. “I think the days of the gasoline engine are numbered, even if we don’t know exactly what that number is,” said Daniel Becker, head of the Safe Climate Campaign, which is part of the Center for Auto Safety consumer advocacy group in Washington. The competition over electrics is picking up speed and players. Toyota, which has so far focused its efforts on hybrid models, will display a battery-powered concept car at the Detroit show. Nissan’s chief executive, Carlos Ghosn, has promised to sell an electric car in the United States and Japan as early as next year. Two Japanese automakers, Mitsubishi and Fuji Heavy Industries, the parent company of Subaru, are also testing electric cars. And Chrysler, the most troubled of Detroit’s three auto companies, has vowed to produce its first electric car by 2010. Advertisement The surge toward electric vehicles also appears to be jump-starting investments in advanced-battery production in the United States. General Motors will announce plans at the auto show to build a factory in the United States to assemble advanced batteries for its Chevrolet Volt model, which it expects to start selling next year. American auto executives have warned that without homegrown suppliers, the country could potentially become as dependent on Asian-made batteries as it is on oil from the Middle East and elsewhere. “Automakers cannot afford the batteries until they are produced in a certain volume,” said Brett Smith, an industry analyst at the Center for Automotive Research in Ann Arbor, Mich. “But they can’t be produced in volume until companies make a big manufacturing investment.” Strong consumer demand has to be part of that equation, too. And it remains unclear whether consumers will be comfortable with the idea of buying an electric car, or whether these vehicles will priced to compete with comparable gas-powered models. Ford would not say what its electric car will cost. The Chevrolet Volt is expected to cost around $40,000. “It’s the right time to take this step, but it would be presumptive to try and predict what the market is ultimately going to look like,” said Derrick M. Kuzak, Ford’s chief of global product development. So far, consumers have proved to be fickle about how much they care about fuel economy. When gas prices soared above $4 a gallon last year, sales of the market-leading Prius hybrid surged so quickly that Toyota could not build them fast enough. But demand sagged when gas prices dropped below $2 a gallon. Industry analysts also note that electric models could be a harder sell than hybrids, which have a gasoline engine to assist and recharge battery packs, freeing them from the need to be plugged in. Advertisement Most of the prospective electric models need to be charged for several hours to cover a day’s worth of driving. Ford estimates that its car will need at least a six-hour charge to travel 100 miles. The Volt can get 40 miles on battery power alone, and it has a small gasoline engine that drives a generator to extend its range. Americans, on average, drive their cars less than 35 miles a day, according to the latest federal statistics, and the industry is likely to play up that fact in its advertising campaigns. With so many families owning two cars, they may see an electric vehicle as an attractive choice for short commutes and running errands. One way to potentially take the worry out of being stuck with a spent battery is to allow consumers to change them on the fly. The firm Better Place, of Palo Alto, Calif., is working with Nissan and other carmakers to set up stations to offer quick battery exchanges or plug-in charging outlets in Japan, Israel, Denmark and elsewhere. The company has also signed partnership deals in Hawaii and California. “What will determine the market is not going to be how far your battery can go, but how far your infrastructure is spread so power is available,” said Shai Agassi, the chief executive of Better Place. The American auto industry’s most notable previous foray into electric vehicles came in the late 1990s, when G.M. introduced the EV-1. That car, which was available in limited numbers only through leases, was pulled from production before it could build a following (though a 2006 documentary about the EV-1 — “Who Killed the Electric Car?” — has developed a following of its own). Now most of the major car companies have years of experience with hybrid vehicles and their electric systems. While Ford’s Project M was started last year, executives said the company had been moving in this direction since early this decade. Ford first started selling its Escape hybrid S.U.V. in 2004. Mr. Ford recalled how he used to drive an experimental electric Ranger pickup truck to work each day. “The reason we used a Ranger was because the whole back bed was full of lead-acid batteries,” he said. The advent of smaller, more advanced lithium-ion batteries has also allowed the car companies to develop electric cars that look, feel and handle much like conventional vehicles. Advertisement Ford and its supplier partner, the Canadian firm Magna International, built the Project M prototype in the body of a Ford Focus compact car. It is planning a more distinctive design for the finished product when it goes on the market in two years. The modest expectations for initial sales are reflected in Ford’s plan for introducing the car at the auto show Sunday. There won’t be the usual dry ice, flashing lights and pounding music. Instead, there will be a simple announcement at a news conference, and the car will be parked on the street in front of the convention center, available for short test drives by journalists through downtown Detroit. A picture caption last Sunday with the continuation of an article about Detroit’s gamble on electric cars misidentified, in some editions, the car shown. It was a Chevrolet Volt, not Ford’s Project M prototype. Lindsay Brooke contributed reporting from Detroit. A version of this article appears in print on , on page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Detroit Goes for Gasless Cars, but Will Drivers?. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Foreign   Dispute Weakens Iraqi Sunni Coalition. Advertisement Advertisement By SAM DAGHERJAN. 10, 2009 BAGHDAD — The Iraqi Parliament plunged into a fresh crisis on Saturday, just a day before it was scheduled to reconvene, when members of the main Sunni Arab coalition fell into bitter infighting over choosing a new Parliament speaker. The fighting centers on replacing Mahmoud al-Mashhadani, a prominent Sunni Arab politician who was forced to resign as speaker on Dec. 23 after months of complaints by the main Kurdish and Shiite blocs in Parliament. The blocs said they were upset about his overall performance and his frequent lashing out from the podium. In the end, some Sunni Arab lawmakers agreed and supported his ouster. According to political agreements, his successor must be a Sunni Arab, as part of a codified effort to help Iraq’s Sunni minority feel it has a voice in government. But disagreements over the choice led to more walkouts from the main Sunni political coalition, Tawafiq, on Saturday, weakening the bloc before crucial provincial elections scheduled for the end of January and raising the possibility of street protests by outraged Sunnis. The dispute may also keep Parliament from passing any legislation until a speaker is chosen and confirmed. Tawafiq had been given until Friday to come up with a new candidate for the post. On Thursday, Iyad al-Samarraie, Tawafiq’s head and a senior leader in one of the bloc’s main parties, the Iraqi Islamic Party, said in an interview that he had been nominated for the position. Accusing the party of trying to force its coalition partners into accepting Mr. Samarraie, four Sunni deputies, including Taha al-Luhaibi, said Saturday that they would leave Tawafiq. “The Islamic Party wants to take all decisions,” said Mr. Luhaibi, accusing the party of presuming to speak in the name of all Sunnis. “It’s the dictatorship of the one party.” Advertisement This leaves Tawafiq, which was already beset by infighting and other defections, with about 25 members in Parliament, of whom about 22 are from the Iraqi Islamic Party. The bloc started with 44 members in 2006. There are a total of 69 Sunni Arabs in the 275-member Parliament. Sheik Khalaf al-Olayan, a Sunni Arab tribal leader who belongs to Mr. Mashhadani’s Iraqi National Dialogue Council Party, has presented himself as an alternative candidate for the speaker post. His faction has always had a tense relationship with the Iraqi Islamic Party over its domination of key government posts allotted to Sunni Arabs. “This position is ours, and we get to nominate the speaker,” said Sheik Olayan, referring to his faction. “There could be demonstrations and even clashes. Everything is possible.” He accused the Iraqi Islamic Party of reaching a backroom deal with the main Kurdish and Shiite parties in Parliament to remove Mr. Mashhadani and replace him with someone more likely to help advance those parties’ top goals, including stronger federal powers that would favor Kurdish and Shiite autonomy. Sheik Olayan accused the Iraqi Islamic Party of receiving kickbacks from the Kurds and said he had evidence to prove this, though he did not immediately present any. Mr. Samarraie dismissed Sheik Olayan’s charges and accused him of being after the position of speaker for “prestige and financial gains.” Mr. Samarraie said the speaker’s position belonged to Tawafiq, based on the compromise and agreements reached with the country’s main Kurdish and Shiite political forces after the December 2005 elections that distributed the country’s crucial leadership posts according to sectarian and ethnic considerations. That would disqualify Sheik Olayan, whose faction has left the bloc. The Iraqi Islamic Party’s determination to name the next speaker has angered other factions in Parliament that are not part of the main Shiite and Kurdish blocs. Some said they saw Mr. Mashhadani’s exit as a good opportunity to break away from the ethnic and sectarian politics of the past five years. Several other candidates, including a Shiite, Mahdi al-Hafidh, said they would be interested in the post. Advertisement “Their insistence on these sectarian and ethnic quotas will only fuel tensions on the street,” said Maysoun al-Damaluji, a lawmaker who identified herself as a secular and liberal politician. “I feel that the Iraqi people are fed up with this.” Hassan al-Shimmari, a Shiite lawmaker who leads the Fadhila bloc, lamented the whole “conspiratorial” nature of Iraqi politics at a time, he said, when all factions should band together for the greater good of Iraq. “Unfortunately, the whole political process is now based on factions conspiring against each other for their own gains,” he said. “No one is interested in nation-building.” Suadad al-Salhy contributed reporting. A version of this article appears in print on , on page A10 of the New York edition with the headline: Dispute Weakens Iraqi Sunni Coalition. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Obituary   Ned Tanen, 77, Film Executive With a Youthful Touch. Ned Tanen, a studio executive who seemed to have a Midas touch in bringing youth-oriented films like ''American Graffiti'' and ''Animal House'' to the screen, died at his home in Santa Monica, Calif., on Monday. He was 77. His death was confirmed by his daughter Sloane Tanen; no cause was given. Mr. Tanen started out in the mailroom at the MCA talent agency and then rose through the ranks at its film subsidiary, Universal; he was later in charge of motion pictures at Paramount Pictures as well. When he started out, the old Hollywood studio system was breaking up and film executives grappled with the challenge of television. A devotee of films that told a story, he later had to deal with new realities like runaway star salaries and the special-effects movies he called hardware films. Even so, he compiled an enviable record of box-office hits and critical successes, based in no small part on his talent for identifying films that would appeal to young ticket-buyers, including ''E.T.: The Extraterrestrial.'' After his studio career, he independently produced films by John Hughes, including ''Sixteen Candles'' and ''The Breakfast Club.'' In 1980 he helped Universal set a Hollywood record of $290 million for a single studio's box-office receipts with films like ''Coal Miner's Daughter,'' ''The Blues Brothers'' and ''Smokey and the Bandit II,'' then broke it two years later. At Paramount, films like ''Pretty in Pink,'' ''Top Gun'' and ''Crocodile Dundee,'' all released in 1986, earned $600 million, giving Paramount more than double the gross revenues of its nearest competitor. The studio finished first the next year as well. Ned Stone Tanen was born in Los Angeles. After graduating from the University of California, Los Angeles, and serving in the Air Force, he started out in the MCA mailroom in 1954 and later became an agent. In 1967, while working for the music division of the company, which had grown into an entertainment conglomerate, he helped to create the Uni label, whose artists included the Strawberry Alarm Clock, Olivia Newton-John, Neil Diamond and Elton John. Uni Records later merged with Decca to become MCA Records. In the early 1970s, after working as a production supervisor on Milos Forman's film ''Taking Off,'' he went into film production full time, helping to develop projects like ''American Graffiti,'' ''The Deer Hunter,'' ''Smokey and the Bandit'' and ''Jaws'' for Universal, MCA's film subsidiary. In 1976 he became president of Universal's film-producing division, and two years later he was named president of Universal Pictures, its distribution arm. In December 1982, riding a wave of hits, as well as critical successes like ''Melvin and Howard'' and ''Missing,'' he resigned from Universal, saying he was exhausted and, he told The Wall Street Journal, tired of playing ''the Hollywood game.'' He started Channel Productions, which developed the brat-pack trilogy of ''Sixteen Candles,'' ''The Breakfast Club'' and ''St. Elmo's Fire.'' After vowing to steer clear of a studio job, he surprised Hollywood in 1984 by agreeing to become president of Paramount's motion picture division, a post he accepted because he did not have to be involved with distribution or advertising. While at Paramount he oversaw the production of ''Ghost,'' ''Ferris Bueller's Day Off,'' ''Children of a Lesser God,'' ''Fatal Attraction'' and ''The Accused.'' In 1988 Mr. Tanen retired for a second time, but he continued to produce independently. His later films included ''Guarding Tess,'' ''Cops and Robbersons'' and ''Mary Reilly.'' His first three marriages ended in divorce. Besides his daughter Sloane, of Manhattan, he is survived by his partner, Donna Dubrow; another daughter, Tracy James of Los Angeles; and three grandchildren. Along the way Mr. Tanen had his hits and his fair share of misses. He was philosophical about both. A firm believer in the screenwriter William Goldman's ''no one knows anything'' theory of filmmaking, he maintained an amused skepticism about the business of manufacturing box-office successes. ''There's nothing like a hit movie to make you think you're one of the chosen people,'' he told The New York Times in 1982, the year ''E.T.'' came out. ''It's amazing how smart we are the morning after a hit opens.'' He freely admitted that the success of ''National Lampoon's Animal House'' surprised him as much as anyone else. ''All we did was make a picture about college fraternity life in the '60s,'' he said. PHOTO: Ned Tanen in 1977. He had hits at Universal and Paramount.(PHOTOGRAPH DON PETERSON) Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers. New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse.
Society   Correction. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content Skip to navigation View mobile version The New York Times Weddings|Correction Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Supported by Weddings | Correction Correction JAN. 11, 2009 Continue reading the main story Share This Page Continue reading the main story Because of an editing error, a report last Sunday on the wedding of Tamar Schwartz and David Wise misstated the day of the ceremony. It was the day of the report, not Jan. 3. A version of this correction appears in print on , on page ST11 of the New York edition. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Continue reading the main story What's Next Loading... Go to Home Page » Site Index The New York Times Site Index Navigation News World U.S. Politics N.Y. Business Tech Science Health Sports Education Obituaries Today's Paper Corrections Opinion Today's Opinion Op-Ed Columnists Editorials Contributing Writers Op-Ed Contributors Opinionator Letters Sunday Review Taking Note Room for Debate Public Editor Video: Opinion Arts Today's Arts Art & Design ArtsBeat Books Dance Movies Music N.Y.C. Events Guide Television Theater Video: Arts Living Automobiles Crossword Food Education Fashion & Style Health Jobs Magazine N.Y.C. Events Guide Real Estate T Magazine Travel Weddings & Celebrations Listings & More Classifieds Tools & Services Times Topics Public Editor N.Y.C. Events Guide Blogs Multimedia Photography Video NYT Store Times Journeys Subscribe Manage My Account Subscribe Subscribe Times Insider Home Delivery Digital Subscriptions NYT Opinion Crossword Email Newsletters Alerts Gift Subscriptions Corporate Subscriptions Education Rate Mobile Applications Replica Edition International New York Times Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Sports   Sports. Sports Search slide shows All Multimedia » next 1 of 12 Eagles Defeat Giants Sign In to E-Mail or Save This The Giants' Derrick Ward rushed 12 times for 46 yards in Sunday's game against the Philadelphia Eagles. Left, Ward was hit by the Eagles' Asante Samuel in the first quarter. Photo: Gary Hershorn/Reuters related Article: Giants Stopped Short, Ending Title Defense Home Sports Log In Register Now Copyright   The New York Times Company Privacy Policy Contact Us Help Work for Us Site Map campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_personalized_isEDU_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/slideshow/yr/mo/day/sports/20090111-EAGLES_index.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/slideshow/yr/mo/day/sports, position: Inv1
Travel   Paradise in Thailand. Subscribe Now Subscribe campaign: inyt2015_bar1_digi_usd_4L9UF -- 277474, creative: inyt2015_bar1_digi_buttononly_usd_4L9UF -- 406560, page: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/travel/0111-PHUKET.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/travel, position: Bar1 Log In Register Now Help More Slide Shows Travel Search Slide Shows All Multimedia » Close Paradise in Thailand « Previous 1 of 12 Next » Sign In to E-Mail Bouncing back from the tsunami of 2004, new hotels in Phuket, Thailand, are pushing luxury to new levels by combining global style with Thai hospitality. Left, the infinity pool bar at the Anantara Phuket, a prominent new resort that opened in October. Credit: Justin Mott for The New York Times Related Article: The Rebirth of Phuket Travel Guide: Phuket Home Travel © 2011 The New York Times Company Privacy Policy Your Ad Choices Contact Us Help Work for Us Site Map campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_personalized_isEDU_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/travel/0111-PHUKET.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/travel, position: Inv1
Arts   ‘Orfeo ed Euridice’. Subscribe Now Subscribe campaign: inyt2015_bar1_digi_usd_4L9UF -- 277474, creative: inyt2015_bar1_digi_buttononly_usd_4L9UF -- 406560, page: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/arts/20090112_ORFEO_SLIDESHOW.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/arts, position: Bar1 Log In Register Now Help More Slide Shows Arts Search Slide Shows All Multimedia » Close ‘Orfeo ed Euridice’ « Previous 1 of 6 Next » Sign In to E-Mail Stephanie Blythe, left, as Orfeo and Heidi Grant Murphy as Amor in the Metropolitan Opera's production of Gluck's "Orfeo ed Euridice." Credit: Sara Krulwich/The New York Times Related Article: As Gluck’s Mythic Hero, a Mezzo-Soprano Takes Command With Bolts of Melody Home Arts © 2011 The New York Times Company Privacy Policy Your Ad Choices Contact Us Help Work for Us Site Map campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_personalized_isEDU_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/arts/20090112_ORFEO_SLIDESHOW.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/arts, position: Inv1
Business   Talk to the Newsroom: Ben Ratliff, Jazz and Pop Critic. Advertisement Advertisement JAN. 11, 2009 Ben Ratliff, music critic, is answering questions from readers Jan. 12-16, 2009. Questions may be e-mailed to askthetimes@nytimes.com. To move directly to the most recent answer, click here. Mr. Ratliff has been a jazz and pop critic at the New York Times since 1996. Born in New York City in 1968, he grew up in London and Rockland County, N.Y., and studied Classics at Columbia University. He is the author of "Jazz: A Critic’s Guide to the 100 Most Important Recordings" (2002), "Coltrane: The Story of a Sound" (2007) and "The Jazz Ear: Conversations Over Music" (2008). Among hundreds of reviews, reported stories and obituaries in these pages, he has written about Duke Ellington, Slick Rick, Shirley Caesar, Dorival Caymmi, Miles Davis, Tony Bennett, Johnny Paycheck, Cat Power, Slayer, Donald Lambert, the Stooges, Tito Puente, Miley Cyrus, Prince, Gal Costa, Bo Diddley, Bebo Valdes, the Texas A&M University Marching Storm, community singing in East Lansing, Mich., the praise-rock house bands at the High Desert Church in Victorville, Calif., and much else. Other Times staff members have answered questions in this column, including Executive Editor Bill Keller, Managing Editor Jill Abramsn, Managing Editor John Geddes, Assistant Managing Editor Glenn Kramon, Associate Managing Editor Charles Strum, Obituaries Editor Bill McDonald, Metropolitan Editor Joe Sexton, Living Editor Trish Hall, Investigations Editor Matthew Purdy, National Editor Suzanne Daley, Sports Editor Tom Jolly and Culture Editor Sam Sifton. Their responses and those of other Times staff members are available on the Talk to the Newsroom page. These discussions will continue in coming weeks with other Times editors and reporters. Why Isn't Jazz Audience Bigger? Advertisement Q. Why isn't there more of an audience for "straight-ahead" jazz? Or put in a different way, how come established jazz artists who have been active since the '50s or early '60s are given only niche status (or no visibility at all) by the media? Do you feel the media plays a role/responsibiltiy regarding the public awareness of such artists as Freddie Hubbard, Barry Harris, Cedar Walton, for example? Why is it that the general (U.S.) public have no awareness or appreciation of this genre? A. Paul, this is a big question. I'll try to hit some parts of it but I probably won't answer it to your satisfaction. In the last 60 years, people almost completely stopped dancing to jazz, and far fewer people grew up with pianos in the house. I think that has a lot to do with why jazz is no longer the popular vernacular art it used to be. When you dance to music (in all ways — partner dancing, stepping, headbanging — just reacting to music with your body) or when you play it, then you own it. A lot of people born since 1960 don't feel that they own jazz. Absolutely, the media plays a role in why the average person doesn't know who Cedar Walton is. But I think the mainstream media — obviously we're not talking about jazz magazines like Downbeat, which has Benny Golson on the cover this month (a good example of the kind of artist you're talking about) — doesn't, by definition, deal with the kind of art that post-bop mainstream jazz has become, which is an art of tradition and very slow refinements. Mainstream publications, generally, want to run music stories about what's new or radically different, or about trends. (This could get into a larger issue about the shallowness of the general perception of "news.") With classical music, they put a lot of stock in premieres or big, notable new compositions. In jazz there are few premieres and few big, notable new compositions. One has to sniff out what's interesting, however it presents itself: it could be a one-night gig attended by 15 people or a sold-out run. As for the general public, they're not buying albums as much anymore, and as much as jazz is a recordings medium at all, it's still an album art. I believe that jazz needs more jazz clubs (with small cover charges), because it's still a social music. The way to know about Cedar Walton in 2009 is to go see him at the Village Vanguard. By the way, I see that The Times has mentioned Cedar Walton 247 times, in reviews and articles and listings, since 1980. Not too bad. Advertisement What a Jazz Review Should Do Q. You consistently do two very helpful things in your jazz reviews. First, along with describing the musical experience, you subtly work in nuggets of the music's history, "teaching" jazz roots even as you review a single performance drawing on them. Second, you artfully suggest, in words, what the actual aural experience in the nightclub or concert hall was like, so that I sometimes feel as though I might have been seated in the audience myself — and might not even agree with your interpretation of what we've both "heard!" This is most welcome reviewing. I wonder what you think a jazz critic ought to minimally try to accomplish in a review, especially since, given brief engagements and steep ticket prices and cover charges, most of your readers won't hear the musicians you've heard in the circumstances you've heard them. A. Ivan, I try not to write play-by-play criticism about a gig, because it's just too boring for non-initiates. I have notes to guide me, but generally I can remember two or three or four moments in the gig when something really got cracking in the music: a shift, a contrast, a confluence of things, or a little gesture that says exactly what kind of musician we're dealing with. I try to write from a kind of sense memory and I tend to think of the music as almost a physical, visible thing. Sometimes, though, you have to deal with more than just music. You're not sitting there in the dark with headphones on: you're taking part in the two-way (performers and audience) ritual of a concert. The performer's attitude, body language, his total rhetoric, is important. What's going on in the audience, how it's reacting physically and intellectually, is important, too. I like to write about shows at the beginning of a run at the Village Vanguard, or Iridium, or the Jazz Standard, or wherever, so that readers can go see it before it's over. I also like to write about regular weekly residencies, like the Mandingo Ambassadors at Barbès, or Forró in the Dark at Nublu: those kinds of gigs create an environment that's great for the clubs, great for their neighborhoods, great for the musical culture of this city. But sometimes I write about concerts that only happen once, and leave the reader thinking "why didn't he let me know about that when I could have still bought a ticket?" Well, sometimes it's worth fighting against mainstream media becoming completely service-oriented. (It's a fine line, sometimes, between an excited, optimistic preview piece and what publicists do.) Something good happened in a club in such a place at such an hour: that's cultural news. So you can't see it yourself tonight? Tough. You still deserve to know about it. Advertisement Who Are the Greats of Tomorrow? Q. Who, in the current jazz scene, will be thought of as a true innovator 50 years from now and why? My favorite jazz innovators of 40-50-60 years ago are Miles, Trane, Mingus, Monk, Bird and Duke (no surprises there!). A. Besides the obvious question in this question — who's really good out there — you're also asking me who will be remembered, who will be heard widely among musicians, who will be written about and studied, and what people will understand as "innovation" in 50 years. I gotta tell you, Kris, I don't measure jazz musicians by innovation. I measure them by how much they are their greatest selves. Sometimes an idea that's basically ancient can be the freshest, most explosive thing, if it's played with real presence and authority. Or an idea that mixes the ancient with the contemporary: even better. Advertisement But one thing is for sure: whoever is seen as innovative and important in 50 years is someone who is going to have had a lot of gigs with a steady working group, or a series of working groups. Lots, lots, lots. This is how any jazz becomes important and great. We need jazz clubs right now, and affordable ones. But I know what you mean. Here's some bandleaders, musicians, and bands in jazz who have come along in the last 10-some years who might well be important in 50 years: Jason Moran, Guillermo Klein, Stacy Dillard, Miguel Zenón, Dafnis Prieto, Robert Glasper, Darcy James Argue, Tyshawn Sorey, Jenny Scheinman, the Bad Plus (and its constituent parts Ethan Iverson, Reid Anderson, and David King), Marcus Gilmore, Nasheet Waits. There are lots of others, I promise you. I will soon have regrets about who didn't spring to mind. Live Performances vs. Recordings Q. I have two questions. First, as a fairly recent convert to Jazz, is it just me or is it a common knowledge to Jazz lovers that Live Jazz is almost infinitely better then even a great recording on a good quality home sound system. Sure seems that way to me. Secondly, and as a guitar player myself, I'm wondering if you, or anyone, might know how Django Reinhardt was able to do some of those seemingly impossible runs up the neck- especially with a deformed left hand. A. I'm kind of mystical about this, Gene. Yes, I do think that live jazz is often better. Jazz is about revision and development: it's always going somewhere. There are great jazz records, a lot of them, but I think that in jazz, records are finally not really the point. I find I can take the measure of a musician or a band much better by seeing him/her/it live, over a few nights, than digesting something fixed and created away from audiences, like a studio record. As for Django Reinhardt, just watch this and I think you'll get your answer. A Cultural Shift Toward Jazz? Q. Now that Barack Obama has said there will be jazz in the White House — does that mean we're at the end of stupid and the beginning of smart? A. I think that we tend to look at our president and think, this is us. If that this-is-us perception includes President-elect Obama's interest in John Coltrane, say, it might be a meaningful thing. If he installed a "secretary of culture" who knew a lot about jazz and Afro-Latin music, there might actually be concrete results. Advertisement I don't know yet what Mr. Obama is going to do for jazz. I thought it was clever that after his acceptance speech he used one of the same Brooks & Dunn country songs ("Only in America") that George W. Bush had used on the campaign trail in 2004. Maybe that's the jazz process: using an old song to new ends. 10 Very Good Jazz Albums Q. What are, by your lights, the 10 best jazz albums released since your guide to jazz was published? A. Here are 10 very good ones, not in any particular order, since 2002: Andrew Hill: "Time Lines" Gonzalo Rubalcaba: "Avatar" Jason Moran: "Modernistic" Guillermo Klein: "Filtros" Maria Schneider: "Blue Sky" Wayne Shorter Quartet: "Beyond the Sound Barrier" Rudresh Mahanthappa: "Kinsmen" Ravi Coltrane: "In Flux" Miguel Zenón: "Jibaro" Branford Marsalis: "Braggtown" Higher Education and Jazz Q. I've read that jazz studies programs at the university level are thriving, which if true struck me as a pleasant surprise. Yet at the same time, would you see this as a positive indicator for jazz's commercial viability, or could it push it off even further into a niche segment? Q. What has been the effect of music schools on jazz? More and more players are getting more and more training and achieving ever-greater technical skill. But has this helped or hindered the development of jazz as an idiosyncratic and personal art? A. Jazz is a compound that keeps getting bigger. What started out as a fusion (of African and Caribbean and European elements) kept rolling, picking up more as it went along. Many of those additive elements have been personal languages: styles of arrangement and composition and improvisation as put forth by Armstrong-Ellington-Basie-Monk-Parker-Rodriguez-Rollins-Jamal-Vaughan-Jamal-Coltrane-Davis-Silver-Coleman-Giuffre-Hancock-Bley-Shorter-Metheny-Marsalis-Frisell-Douglas-Mehldau, and on and on. And as the music grows bigger, the audience grows smaller. You're right, FL from Philly, that university-level jazz studies are thriving. But I worry about all those graduates: Where are they going to play? Who's going to listen to them? We need more audiences, but we also need more education of audiences. Jazz should be taught as a natural part of our cultural patrimony. Everyone's experience with higher education is different. I don't think you want to blame music schools too much: Miles Davis went to one, and it didn't ruin him. Sometimes people need an education to learn what they eventually want to react against. Those who are teaching jazz currently at the New School or Cal Arts or the Manhattan School will have an enormous effect on the direction and orientation of jazz musicians in the next 10 years. That's the way it goes. Advertisement Does all that jazz education make new jazz less approachable, more academic? Sometimes, yes, I can hear it. Especially where it's not enough about rhythm. But more often I'm just hearing a band that hasn't played live enough. The Plight of the Unsigned Artist Q. As a longtime reader and subscriber, it strikes me that the Times is clinging and catering to the dead business model of the "record business", reviewing only label releases, reviewing performances by "signed" musicians. There is little doubt that "physical product" isn't selling, and the trend is toward free downloads/alternative distribution/extensive touring. Why isn't the Times working on the leading edge, exploring unsigned musicians who are choosing to pursue viable careers outside of the "biz" and exploring and reporting on the emerging new ways of finding ways to make money while pursuing a viable artistic career? A. Before I say "we do!," let me unravel your question a little bit. Record labels for me are a kind of filter, one of many different ways that a musician or a band reaches my ears. Other ways I find out: the opinions of people I trust, some magazines, some Web sites, some blogs, opening acts, recommendations from musicians. At this point, zillions of bands of all kinds can be "signed," though being signed doesn't necessarily mean a nice advance and tour support. And a lot of musicians or bands stay with tiny labels; being signed by Sony or Def Jam or Geffen or whatever does not necessarily lead to happiness and wealth. Being "signed" doesn't particularly convey credibility. Being "unsigned" conveys a little less. Jazz and pop musicians are putting out their own records all over the place. I'm thinking of some I have reviewed in recent years, by Dave Douglas, Eric Revis, Judith Berkson, Noah Preminger, Leron Thomas, Julie Feeney. If they're doing it themselves, does that mean they're unsigned? What's a viable career outside any form of "the biz," including your own biz? How long can you do your art if you can't feed your kids or yourself? You're right that the record-business model is in decline, but most bands are still in the practice of putting out records of some kind, if only as calling cards for gigs. I guess the question is, why don't we review music in the form of songs from myspace pages, or streams from Web sites, or whatever, rather than albums on CD. Sometimes we do, when they're worthwhile: in our Playlist column on Sunday, in live reviews, in previews. I'm sure we'll be doing it more as time goes by. I also tried to address music outside of the usual parameters of albums, publicists and the usual concert circuits in a series of articles called "America's Music," which wrapped up about a year ago. I wrote about music in this country that serves a community function, that brings people together, without really becoming a commercial concern, like H.B.C.U. marching bands, Czech-American polka in Nebraska and megachurch rock. Advertisement Maybe we should just cut out the middleman and review musicians when they're rehearsing, before their first gig. The Role of Race in Jazz Q. What in your view does race have to do with jazz? Some have called it Great Black Music and consider it to be America's true Classical Music. Historically, there is no question that this music arose from the amalgamation of martial instruments colliding with African rhythmns in the reactor of urban America. What role does race and culture play in contemporary jazz? The future of jazz? A. Chere, jazz is really self-referential. It's a hundred-year continuity: that's the only way to make sense of it. And so it has a lot to do with tradition and cultural memory, even when it's playing games with them. Race obviously plays an enormous part in tradition and cultural memory. Just in realistic terms: when we talk about "jazz," we're talking about music currently played by people from the ages of, let's say, 20 to 85. Three generations, lots of different styles. Plus, we're almost never talking about jazz of this moment (the way we talk about, say, hiphop of this moment by thinking about what songs have come out over the last month). We're talking about the whole of it. Are you asking me if it's still black music? Yes, some of it, though in the past, more of it was more so. Any kind of person can become part of jazz now. Jazz doesn't represent American culture today. It represents those who are gifted and lucky enough to learn it. But I wouldn't say any particular music represents the culture of America, because the culture of America is too broad for that. Respect for Heavy Metal? Q. Heavy metal is wildly popular again. This is heart-warming to me as a 36-year-old because many of us thought the music would never come back after the glory ride of the early 1980s. My question is why doesn't the music merit much serious consideration? I know you — and some other serious and talented scribes — write about it on occasion, but over all it's side-stepped by the mainstream and established media. That's the way it was then and is now. A. Ray, do you mean over the last year? Or the last week? Or today? Over the past year or so I'm remembering that we wrote about platinum metal and tiny-audience metal. Cynic, the Dio-era Black Sabbath box set, Opeth, Cannibal Corpse, Genghis Tron, Dillinger Escape Plan, Thrones, Megadeth, Ocrilim, Neurosis ... I wrote a front page Arts & Leisure story about Metallica ... Jon Caramanica hiked out to Jones Beach to write about the Mötley Crüe tour and stayed out until 3 a.m. on a recent morning reviewing Nachtmystium. As for the rest of the mainstream and established media, I guess I'm not seeing much about metal in Newsweek. But you know that Lester Bangs hated Black Sabbath, don't you? We've come a long way since then. Advertisement There is a certain midlevel meat-and-potatoes death metal that resists "serious consideration" outside of specialist quarters because ... because ... because so much of it sounds alike. It's not bad that it sounds alike; it strengthens a tradition. But writing about it for a general audience is really hard work. Places to Hear Music Q. Curious what your favorite venues are for jazz, and why, and also perhaps the ones you don't particularly like. Q. What's your favorite venue for live jazz, taking into consideration ambience, atmosphere and acoustics? Q. As an occasional visitor, what are the best New York City (and northern New Jersey) venues for seeing rising players? If I don't want Vanguard or Jazz Standard, where can I experiment on names I don't know and (usually) find quality? A. I used to answer this by suggesting that you should be thinking in terms of who to see, not where to go. But I'm changing a little. It's important to keep going to a place that you like, and to take chances when you don't know the band. I like places where music sounds close and physical, and where musicians like to hang out. In New York jazz, when it's not for musicians, that seems to mean it's for tourists. And I like tourists, but I don't want to feel like one every night. I have spent some very good nights at the Village Vanguard on Seventh Avenue South, Nublu on Avenue C, St. Nick's Pub on St. Nicholas Avenue, the Lenox Lounge at Lenox and 125th, and Barbès on Sixth Avenue in Brooklyn. I like the Jazz Standard on East 27th Street, particularly the second table back near stage right. As for music: Le Poisson Rouge, on Bleecker Street, is working hard on smart booking, and it shows. The Stone, on Avenue C, as well: every month a different musician is the curator. The atmosphere is a little ascetic, but I guess that's the point. For a jazz club, the Jazz Gallery, on Hudson Street, presents a lot of composition-oriented projects — premieres of long pieces written on grant money. And its bookings are like an index of who's getting serious out there. I've also felt very happy at the Bowery Poetry Club, but it doesn't only book music. I think I'm not alone in my problem with the Blue Note. I feel like I'm in an airplane there, and I've never liked the bright sound very much. Advertisement You're asking about jazz, but I have been really happy to see the flourishing of do-it-yourself rock venues around Manhattan and Brooklyn, like Death By Audio, Less Artists More Condos and Silent Barn. And speaking of do-it-yourself, I always really liked Phill Niblock's Experimental Intermedia on Centre Street. He's been doing it himself since 1973. In this city that's an accomplishment. Another Night, Another Concert? Q. How many jazz sets/pop concerts do you attend on an average week? A. Between one and four, though during festival time in June it could be more. Musical Roots of Jazz Critics? Q. How much musical knowledge and playing ability does a jazz critic need? How would you compare that to a classical or pop critic? A. Mostly, the job is about lots of listening, and seeing lots of performances. That's where almost all my information comes from — not sheet music. But with all kinds of music — not just jazz and classical music — it helps to know a little bit about form and style, to compare and to anticipate. It definitely helps to be able to play an instrument. It also helps to have some experience performing. I've played various instruments for a long time and I'm nothing more than amateur, but every bit of it has helped. I can't speak for classical critics. Pop critics, though, are generally dealing with what you might call audience theory as much as (or more than) music theory. Advertisement Finding Time to Listen Q. I see you review concerts and recordings, jazz and pop music. How do you typically divide your listening time? How do you keep up with all the recordings and shows that aren't directly related to your assignments, but are still broadly related to your work? A. Gavin, as for records — I call CDs records, because it's recorded music — I listen when I'm not writing, exercising, eating, sleeping or helping children with homework. That's not a lot of time per day. My best listening is while driving, no question. My worst listening is on the subway, but I have to do it. You do it when and where you can. And once in a while, you have a day without a deadline, and you want to clean your office, and you get a lot of listening done in one really intense stretch. Give me more of those, please. Is Jazz Dead? Q. Is jazz dead? Are we in a moment in history when even the most creative and talented musicians will find it impossible to "find their own voice"? After Coltrane, Monk and Mingus, maybe there's really just nowhere else to go? A. Coltrane, Monk and Mingus were geniuses, Doug, but they also lived during a time when there was a fair amount of intellectual and media interest in the culture of jazz, and also in the larger idea of cool. I know a fair amount of jazz-playing geniuses myself, but at the moment there are not a lot of people telling you that you would be crucially uninformed if you didn't hear them. Proclaiming something or other is dying or dead is a very media kind of thing to do. I have fallen into that trap myself, regretted it, and learned from it. Editors of magazines and newspapers really, really want writers to say that something is dead. Partly because it's a dogmatic position that makes people's blood boil, but partly because they don't want to think any longer about whatever it is that they're saying is dead. They want to cross off that box and move on. Just in terms of volume, there are more jazz musicians and gigs than I can ever hear, and that's in New York alone. About once every other month — in New York alone — I encounter a young player I've never heard of who astonishes me. (Forget about musicians in Cuba and Poland and Italy and Spain whom I may never get to hear.) It's facile and compulsive, this need to say that an entire art form is dead. Advertisement Listening With Jazz Artists Q. I'd like to ask you a question about your latest book, "The Jazz Ear." 1) Which of the artist(s) that you interviewed made the biggest impression on you in terms of giving you new insight or a point of view you hadn't anticipated? 2) Which did you feel was the most opaque or confounding? A. Gilmore, Thanks for asking about "The Jazz Ear," which was adapted from articles I wrote about musicians in the Times. 1) Might be Dianne Reeves, because I don't think I knew how much she comes from a singer/songwriter tradition rather than, say, a Sarah Vaughan tradition. Also, one tends to think that a singer of her abilities comes on stage and slays you from a great height because that's all she knows how to do. Talking to her and listening to her choices of music — like that medley on Sam Cooke Live at the Copa where he's running through hits and talking to the audience members at the same time, trying to earn their trust — made me understand how she comes out there concerned and thinking hard, using various strategies to win over the crowd by degrees. 2) Would be Ornette Coleman and Wayne Shorter, who are ninjas of the opaque. But I think there's a reason why we like them opaque: around the fifth time you read what they have to say — about harmony or memory or life and death or what happens when we name things — you see that underneath the oracular statements are some very strong and simple ideas and a lot of humor. More Latin Jazz, Por Favor Q. Why do you not write more about Latin jazz artists, like Dave Valentin, Paquito D'Rivera or Tito Puente to name a few? They have contributed greatly to this genre. It would be nice to hear from you about this. I think the readers of The New York Times would benefit to know about these people. A. Julio, Actually I reviewed Paquito D'Rivera 10 days ago, with an enormous picture of him by Earl Wilson on the front of the Arts section. And all of us — myself, Peter Watrous, Jon Pareles, Robert Palmer — wrote quite a lot about Tito when he was alive, and after. As you probably know, right now we're in a very good time for Latin jazz. Jazz as a whole, which was part Latin from the start, is becoming more Latin all the time. A few people that I (and Nate Chinen) have written about recently are Miguel Zenon, Papo Vazquez, Yosvany Terry, David Sanchez, Gonzalo Rubalcaba, the Afro-Latin Jazz Orchestra and the Spanish Harlem Orchestra. Finding a Balance Q. 1) Do you ever feel a conflict between your desire for jazz to be more popular and your desire to warn your readers away from bad musicians? 2) You have a difficult job; pretty much all jazz sounds the same today. I admire your ability to find new phrases to describe the exact same predictable concert. I'll bet you could write most of your reviews before you even arrive at the club. How do you deal with the monotony? A. Josh, you're a stern fellow. Here's what I do. If there's a musician who doesn't do it for me in a gig or a record, and that musician has a very small constituency, I tend not to write about that musician. Even after I've gone to the trouble. Advertisement If a musician is pretty well known and plays a horrible gig, one writes about the horrible gig. But not so much in terms of "I'm warning you! This music could hurt you!" The conflict isn't so much about how to protect jazz; it's about how to stay calm. A degree of moderation is very important to me. Daily newspaper critics ought to be believable. One night I walked three miles after a bad gig, trying to figure out how to write a sufficiently negative review without seeming demented. "Pretty much all jazz sounds the same today." No. "I'll bet you could write..." No. Innovation vs. Tradition in Jazz Q. While there are numerous jazz artists today that are bringing new tonal and structural elements to their music, there are an equal number of artists that are simply dictating the bebop tradition. What value do you find in jazz musicians today who are merely recreating the past? Is a salute to tradition an equally appropriate approach to this music when the music itself has so much to do with breaking boundaries and pushing limits? A second question: I understand you have addressed several questions dealing with jazz pedagogy, but I'd like to know your feelings on the current philosophy of jazz education. If a student is taught such a structured and specific approach to improvisation (for example, blowing corresponding scales over changes, etc.), will the student be unable to approach the music in a unique way? A. Matthew, honestly, I don't hear a lot of musicians these days who are "merely recreating the past." That kind of thing is a sign of inexperience. I hear lots of references to older ways of playing, absolutely, particularly from bebop to Coltrane. But the better musicians do things to those older ways of playing. Naturally, they add newer language, or create mixtures of languages, that wouldn't have occurred to players back then. But, you know, I also hear lots of references to different kinds of free jazz that are up to 45 years old. Even free music forms its own traditions. Your second question makes me think I implied that jazz education, by definition, works against musicians becoming good artists. I hope I didn't. I don't think that at all. Most contemporary jazz musicians go to school, learn a great deal, and in the process start to show who they are. School doesn't make them unable to be unique and creative. Absolutely not. It occurs to me, though, that when I hear musicians I don't really want to think about where and how recently they went to school. Advertisement Is There a Jazz Stigma? Q. Lately, I hear contemporary Indie/alternative/progressive rock groups playing with a lot of improvisation and employing some varied and flexible rhythms. They don't sound all that far from jazz, but nobody ever calls them jazz groups. Do you think artists make efforts to avoid being called "jazz"; that it would be a career killer? And from another perspective: anytime musicians show any proficiency on their instruments or can sing in tune they are called "jazz influenced" (Norah Jones come to mind — there are others). What's up with that? A. John, in the case of Norah Jones, people will tell you her music is jazz because she records for a jazz label, she's a good pianist who has studied jazz, and because there are good improvisers in her group. Don't believe them. A lot of people will give you confusing information about jazz. Put 15 people from varied backgrounds in a room, ask them if they like jazz and if so, what. You'll get very different answers. Bix Beiderbecke, Leonard Bernstein, Jill Scott, Tortoise, Tuck and Patti, Miles Davis, Albert Ayler, Machito, Stan Kenton, Al DiMeola, Paolo Conte, Steely Dan, Django Reinhardt, King Oliver, Squarepusher. Then there's the Jazz Age, jazz dance and smooth jazz. Incredibly confusing When people say something is "jazz-influenced" they generally means there's a bunch of chords in it, it's too slow or quiet to be a club banger, and it isn't obviously coming from the 19th century classical tradition. Maybe, sometimes, it means it involves improvising. About the rock groups you mention — I'm not sure who you're talking about, and this is all so subjective and vague that I'm not going to guess — the sense I get from talking to smart musicians who play "jazz-influenced" music in rock clubs is that they're not really ready to be called anything in particular. They're fighting the whole idea of category. Would It Be Jazz? Q. If I just listened to Mingus pluck an open string that he let resonate for a while, would I be hearing jazz? A. No. You would be hearing Charles Mingus. The Influence of Art Tatum Q. I really enjoy your reviews and interviews as you have such a nice touch for providing insight that's easy for a non-musician like me to understand. I've always listened to jazz but never gave it much thought until about 10 years ago when someone gave me an Art Tatum CD. I was just blown away — thought I was listening to the music I'd waited all my life to hear. I've found quite a bit of his music, but there doesn't seem to be much written about him. What do you think of Art Tatum — how important was— or is — his influence on jazz musicians? Do you think he really played too many notes? I love all those arpeggios, but some of my friends tell me those runs are unsophisticated and useless. Do you think his ornate style is why he isn't as recognized as lesser players of his generation? I know those are a lot of questions, but I'm nearly rabid for the man, hungry for any information. A. Linda, you ask good questions. You're right, Art Tatum is dazzling. Why don't lots of pianists still try to sound like him? Advertisement Some definitely refer to him in their playing. Chucho Valdes and Eldar Djangirov, for example. But one reason they mostly can't is because his strength, physical control, vast memory and the speed of his decisions were all unique to him. Not everything can be learned. And he was much less interested in playing a single note and making it personal, like, say, Miles Davis did. That kind of thing inspires a lot more imitation. But also, he violated one pretty essential rule of the jazz tradition, which is that it's a music of bands. He made some great music with other people but he could make them sound unnecessary. I think he was generally better by himself. Hank Jones said something to the effect that even when he was accompanying singers, Tatum's accompaniment would be another pianist's whole performance. I have trouble with all those runs, sure. I like music to be less overstuffed. But I also think they're part of his language, not just ornamentation. I guess you've already found your way to the album called "20th Century Piano Genius," solo recordings from house parties in the 1950s. I like those the best. And there's a biography of him, too, "Too Marvelous For Words," by James Lester. Ray Barretto's Band Q. I was recently floored by a YouTube video I saw of Ray Barretto's band playing "Ban Ban Qeure" featuring a young Ruben Blades. It features an incredible flute solo by a player I didn't recognize. I haven't been able to find a high quality recording, preferably on vinyl, of this version or at least by the same lineup. This is Latin jazz at it's best. Do you have any information on the recorded works of this Barretto lineup? I would love to hear more. A. So that flute player is Artie Webb, who lives and works on the West Coast now, with Johnny Polanco y Su Conjunto Amistad. (Polanco's new record, with Webb on it, is "Amistad Para El Mundo Entero.") This great video is mid-70s Ray Barretto, salsa turning hard toward jazz. For more from that time, you want the studio album "Barretto" and the live album "Tomorrow: Barretto Live in New York." Both albums have "Ban Ban Quere" on it. You can find all these things at descarga.com, the online retailer for all things Afro-Latin. Forming Opinions of Records Q. How many times do you generally like to listen to a record before you feel "ready" to review it? Do you sometimes find, after publishing a review (and after weeks, months, maybe years of more listening...) that the record sounds considerably different than it did at first; even to the point you wish you could "take back," or at least rewrite, the review? If so, is it more likely to happen with certain kinds of music than others? Or — after years of doing this, have your early impressions become pretty reliable? Advertisement A. I have to hear a record about three times, Sam. Then I start to feel comfortable with it. It's a lot better if you can do this over the course of more than one day. First you're feeling your way in the dark, then you start to know the landmarks. All the time I am anxiously aware of music that I have heard barely or not at all, music that is new or recently old or older than me. There's not much room in there for "You know what I'll do? I'm gonna revise a few opinions." I'm not really a list-maker. I go instinctively toward it or away from it. I think much less about my opinion. To put it another way, if I am aware of a big change in opinion, it's usually from haven't-paid-much-attention to wow-this-is-great. Not so much from, say, positive to negative. But you asked. "Midnite Vultures," by Beck. I thought it was very clever at the time. Does Rhythm Overwhelm Melody? Q. I have been an ardent jazz listener and a semi-pro player for three decades. The first stuff that really grabbed hold of me were recordings of Prez, Bird, Miles, Stan Getz,and Wes, and the wonderful groups they were in. I can hear and sing back melodies in my head from each of them. With the exception of Parker, they weren't "notey" players. They used space and told amazing stories. Skip to concerts I've gone to in recent times, and I'm disappointed so often that the quality of melodic beauty is missing, even though the musicians, some of them really famous, just play so many notes and go on chorus after chorus. I can't leave the place whistling anything memorable, although there usually has been creative rhythm and group interaction. The big exception: Sonny Rollins. Maybe there has been an arc toward rhythm being of greater importance to players and listeners in the music, with fresher fields to explore there. Any thoughts? A. If by "rhythm" you mean sections in odd meter or constantly changing rhythm, then yes, I think there has been a lot of that in jazz recently, probably too much. When there's strong rhythm, strong groove, that's a different thing, and I'm happy. You are not the only person to recognize the decline of a sort of "narrative" melodic improvisation in jazz. It's a problem. It's about three hours' drive from you, but you could go hear Fred Hersch at the Village Vanguard this week. He's fighting the problem. One Review, Two Reactions Q. Quite admirable review of Steve Earle last Friday, comprising music, politics, the venue — in general, the overall vibe of what must have been a weird event: agrarian socialist meets masters of the universe. Is it unusual for a reviewer to take such a broad view of a performance? How long did it take you to figure out that live performance is, after all, a sometimes-jarring encounter between an artist's message and the sensibilities of the audience? Advertisement Nice to have some national attention for one of Denver's treasures, local hero and resident Dianne Reeves. Hooray! Q. I read your review of the Steve Earle and Alison Moorer concert at City Winery in New York City. While I can appreciate the contrast of song, content and origin to the very upscale venue, it seems that it (the review-the focus of your perspective) was at the expense of the artists. For one thing, as a husband and wife combo, they have a song entitled "Days aren't long enough." To my ear, this is an incredible melodic, poetic, heartfelt song. If they played it, and you ignored it, then I believe you made a bad judgment. If they didn't play it, then that might have been their comment about the lack of intimacy at the venue. But I am at a loss as how best to express my disappointment in your not recognizing the most important aspect of any concert: the quality of the total performance, irregardless of the socio-economic gift wrap. After all, maybe the only fault Steve and Allison share, is to be out of "place." Maybe they chose to try a venue not normally the kind of place where their performance would be heard/experienced. But to blame them for this, instead of focusing on the quality of their performance, does not give you a whole lot of stature. I normally find your reviews very helpful in illuminating real talent. I don't believe you tried to do this. BTW, KQED in San Francisco, our Public TV station, made an hourlong program on the 2008 Hardly, Strictly Bluegrass Festival. It is to my profound regret that in the many hours of being at that event, I missed Steve and Allison's performance of that song. If you take the time to get a hold of the tape, you'll understand what I am talking about, because their duet is filmed in the entirety: it is truly hair raising, in the best sense of the expression... A. I thought Steve Earle's set at City Winery last week was pretty boss and I said so, though I know sometimes my praise isn't universally taken as such. I wrote that he sang his songs as if he were crushing them. What I meant was that it was a very physical performance. He was really leaning into his music and applying pressure. I admired it. I agree with the anonymous writer that criticism which talks about everything but the art itself is tiresome. But every concert is a ritual involving the audience and the performer, and in this case the venue made a difference, too. I thought the radical disjunction between the subjects of Earle's songs and where they were being sung should be pointed out. You're right: that disjunction isn't his fault. But there it was, and I felt conscious of it every minute. I wouldn't blame anyone for taking a gig at a brand new club that would seem to be targeting the disappearing minority of the very rich. It's a beautiful place, and music needs audiences, full stop. (It should be understood that it's not an exclusive club: anyone can buy a ticket. The membership fees for making your own wine are not required if you just want to hear a gig.) It is unrealistic to expect a performer to bite the hand that feeds him. But considering how sensitive Earle is to seeing daily life as part of history, it struck me as odd that he didn't comment on it. Go to Home Page »
Food   Mark Bittman. Channels & Shows Home Search Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Mark Bittman, author of “The Minimalist” and “How to Cook Everything,” shares the kitchen with some of the most influential and inventive chefs from around the globe. Recent Episodes in Mark Bittman   Mark Bittman: California Matters 5:18 Chop Suey’s Next Wave   Mark Bittman: California Matters 4:29 A Walk on the Wild (Edibles) Side Mark Bittman 2:41 The Scramble: A Simple Greek Lunch Mark Bittman 4:12 The Rollout: An Ikarian Greens Pie Mark Bittman 2:32 Lorna Sass’s Pressure-Cooker Meatballs Mark Bittman 3:05 Claudia Fleming's Apple Crumb Crostata Mark Bittman 3:15 Danny Bowien’s Thanksgiving Pastrami Mark Bittman 2:38 André Soltner's Pumpkin Soup Mark Bittman 2:59 April Bloomfield's Clam Chowder Show more videos from Mark Bittman Most Popular 1 World A Dyeing Life 2 U.S. Copwatch vs. Cops: After Freddie Gray 3 Opinion Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics 4 Opinion I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked 5 U.S. Best of Obama's Correspondents' Dinner Speech 6 U.S. Haunted by Columbine 7 Opinion Manufacturing China’s Future 8 Opinion Fashion vs. Art 9 World Spinning Ice Circle in Russia 10 Food Coconut Cluster Granola © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Foreign   Crisis Imperils 2-State Plan, Shifting a Balance. Advertisement Advertisement By MICHAEL SLACKMANJAN. 11, 2009 CAIRO — With every image of the dead in Gaza inflaming people across the Arab world, Egyptian and Jordanian officials are worried that they see a fundamental tenet of the Middle East peace process slipping away: the so-called two-state solution, an independent Palestinian state coexisting with Israel. Egypt and Jordan fear that they will be pressed to absorb the Palestinian populations now living beyond their borders. If Israel does not assume responsibility for humanitarian aid in Gaza, for example, pressure could compel Egypt to fill the vacuum; Jordan, in turn, worries that Israel will try to push Palestinians from the West Bank into its territory. In that case, both states fear, they could become responsible for policing the conflict between the Palestinians and Israel, undermining their peace treaties with Israel. The Palestinian cause has always been an explosive, emotional and destabilizing one for Arab states. Islamist parties have scored points with the public by making much of traditional Arab leaders’ failure to help the Palestinians. The Gaza conflict, by reigniting these passions, is deepening regional rivalries and further upending traditional balances of power. Egypt and to some extent Jordan have been thrown off balance by the withering criticism they have faced. Arrayed against them is the alliance of Iran, Syria, Hezbollah and Hamas, the quartet that is fighting against a diplomatic solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict — and with that, against the two-state solution. Advertisement In Egypt, where leaders have been castigated for refusing to keep open the Rafah crossing to Gaza, officials have argued that they are bound by the agreement on border security that followed Israel’s withdrawal from Gaza. But there is an underlying subtext to their message: that Gaza is not Egypt’s problem. “Gaza is no longer Egypt’s responsibility, and Egypt is determined not to take it back,” said Abdel Raoud el-Reedy, a former ambassador to the United States who is the chairman of the Egyptian Council for Foreign Affairs. Egypt controlled Gaza, a 140-square-mile coastal strip, until the 1967 war with Israel. Now, Egypt is trying to negotiate a cease-fire there, because resolving the conflict is very much in its interests. Representatives of Hamas were in Cairo on Sunday and representatives from Israel were expected to arrive Monday, officials said. Hamas wants the border open, but Egypt has refused, except for humanitarian passage for the injured coming out and medicine going in. Israel wants an international force on the Egyptian side of the border, to prevent smuggling through illegal tunnels, but Egypt has refused, saying that would undermine its sovereignty. Rather than saying explicitly that Egypt does not want responsibility for Gaza, the authorities have stressed that Israel should be held accountable, while reaffirming their support for a two-state solution. At a stormy and sometimes defensive news conference in Cairo on Sunday, officials asked why so much attention focused on the one border crossing from Egypt, when there were six crossings from Israel. “What about the other six crossings?” said Ismail Khairat, the newly appointed head of the State Information Service, without a hint of irony. Jordanians, too, are anxious. “It is a real concern in Jordan,” said Adnan Abu Odeh, who was an adviser to King Hussein. Advertisement While the prospect of having to absorb the West Bank may be remote, Jordan does not want to have to do so, fearing it would destroy the fabric of society in the country, where about half the population is of Palestinian origin. “This kind of formula means a Palestinian loss of their land and a Jordanian loss of their identity,” Mr. Odeh said. The fight has accelerated a regionwide battle for influence among Muslim states that was heating up even before the Israeli military attacked Gaza in response to rocket fire from Hamas. The greatest enmity has developed between Iran and Egypt, though just a few months ago it appeared the two were moving toward normalizing diplomatic relations, which had been downgraded when Iran named a street after Anwar el-Sadat’s assassin. “The horrible crime of the Zionist regime in Gaza has once again revealed the bloodthirsty face of this regime from disguise,” Iran’s supreme religious leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, said late last month. Then, singling out Jordan and Egypt, he said, “But worse than this catastrophe is the encouraging silence of some Arab countries which claim to be Muslim.” At the moment, it appears that Iran and its allies have the upper hand, at least in terms of public relations — a turn that seems to have shocked the Egyptians and rattled the authoritarian state’s sense of control. Mohamed Bassiouny, a former Egyptian ambassador to Israel who is now a member of Parliament, was nearly shouting Sunday as he tried to champion Egypt’s cause. Advertisement “The problem is there is a conflict of wills between two groups,” he said. “One group headed by Egypt, this group is pushing for peace and tranquillity and stability, and there is another group headed by Iran pushing for escalating the situation and stopping all kinds of efforts for tranquillity.” Egypt has struggled to assert its role as the traditional diplomatic center of the Arab world, with some self-promotional fanfare and little results. It engaged the formal international system of diplomacy to resurrect the peace process. But its opponents have refused to grant political legitimacy to a process they see as biased against them. Egypt has been fading as a center of regional influence for years, weighed down by poverty, enormous population growth and political stagnation. Even though the mood on the street has changed, its leaders have held tight to the notion that abiding by the 1978 Camp David accord to normalize relations with Israel and pursuing a two-state solution were in Egypt’s best interests. The fighting in Gaza exposed the fragility of that approach, and the frantic tone of the Sunday afternoon news conference suggested that the government had not yet figured out how to respond. A version of this news analysis appears in print on , on page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Crisis Imperils 2-State Plan. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Movies   Critics' Picks: 'Two-Lane Blacktop'. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Critics’ Picks Critics' Picks: 'Two-Lane Blacktop' By Gabe Johnson | Jan. 12, 2009 | 2:56 With the auto industry in difficult financial times, A. O. Scott looks back at the early days of America's fascination with cars. Show More PlaylistUp Next in Critics’ Picks Next →   Critics’ Picks3:39 Critics’ Picks: ‘The Rules of the Game’   Critics’ Picks4:55 Critics’ Picks: ‘The Thin Red Line’   Critics’ Picks3:43 Critics’ Picks: ‘Pulp Fiction’   Critics’ Picks3:14 Critics’ Picks: The Manchurian Candidate   Critics’ Picks3:49 Critics’ Picks: ‘Hannah and Her Sisters’   Critics’ Picks3:09 Critics’ Picks: ‘The Public Enemy’   Critics’ Picks2:53 Critics’ Picks: ‘The Wild Bunch’   Critics’ Picks3:20 Critics’ Picks: ‘Detour’   Critics’ Picks3:29 Critics’ Picks: ’25th Hour’   Critics’ Picks2:36 Critics’ Picks: ‘Au Hasard Balthazar’ © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Obituary   Israel Horowitz, 92, a Record Producer. Israel Horowitz, a record producer who was also an executive editor and classical music columnist for Billboard magazine, died at his home in Closter, N.J., on Dec. 26. He was 92. His death was announced by his son Robert Horowitz. As the director of classical artists and repertory for Decca Records from 1958 to 1971, Mr. Horowitz produced influential recordings by the violinists Ruggiero Ricci and Erica Morini, the organist Virgil Fox, the conductor Leopold Stokowski and the flamenco guitarist Sabicas, among others. He also made some of the first American early-music recordings with Noah Greenberg's pioneering New York Pro Musica, including its classic reconstruction of the medieval ''Play of Daniel.'' But Mr. Horowitz's most enduring recordings are those he made with the guitarist Andr?Segovia, both during his Decca years and as an independent producer in the mid-1970s. Segovia was in his prime when he began working with Mr. Horowitz in 1956, and the discography they built together included everything from transcriptions of lute and vihuela music and Bach works to new pieces written for Segovia by Manuel Ponce, Mario Castelnuovo-Tedesco and Alexandre Tansman. One of their early collaborations, the ''Golden Jubilee'' album, won a Grammy for best classical instrumental performance in 1958. Mr. Horowitz also recorded the first two volumes of ''The Guitar and I,'' a projected series of autobiographical LPs on which Segovia spoke about his life on one side of each disc and performed on the other. Work on the series ended when Decca stopped making classical recordings in 1971. (The American Decca was unrelated to the larger British Decca, which has continued as a classical label.) In recent years, some of the Segovia recordings Mr. Horowitz produced were reissued by Deutsche Grammophon. Mr. Horowitz was born in New York on Sept. 6, 1916, and studied the violin at the Juilliard School. He gave up his ambition to be a violinist when he was drafted into the Army in 1943. He worked as an ordnance technician, but he was also commissioned to write a history of his battalion after the commanding officer discovered his writing ability while censoring his mail. He continued as a writer, editor and historian for the Army Air Forces until 1947. In 1948 he became a reporter for Billboard, a position he left when he joined Decca in 1956. In 1973 he returned to Billboard, where he was New York bureau chief, classical music editor and executive editor. He retired gradually, his son said, beginning in the late 1980s but he continued his weekly column of classical music news, ''Keeping Score,'' until the early 1990s. Mr. Horowitz is survived by his wife of 62 years, Mildred, and two sons, Robert, of Manhattan, and Michael, of Bern, Switzerland. PHOTO: Israel Horowitz in 2002. Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers. New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse.
Science   Underwater Discoveries. Subscribe Now Subscribe campaign: inyt2015_bar1_digi_usd_4L9UF -- 277474, creative: inyt2015_bar1_digi_buttononly_usd_4L9UF -- 406560, page: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/science/011309-Ocean.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/science, position: Bar1 Log In Register Now Help More Slide Shows Science Search Slide Shows All Multimedia » Close Underwater Discoveries « Previous 1 of 11 Next » Sign In to E-Mail This brown algae and its cousins love coastal waters that are cool or cold. Some form wispy clusters of filaments, while others resemble delicate ribbons or leafy, golden-brown shrubs. One of its relatives forms the kelp forests that thrive off the California coast. It can grow as much as a foot a day, producing what are considered the largest of the sea's photosynthetic organisms. Credit: Sylvia Earle/National Geographic Related Article: Mapping the Sea and Its Mysteries Home Science © 2011 The New York Times Company Privacy Policy Your Ad Choices Contact Us Help Work for Us Site Map campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_personalized_isEDU_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/science/011309-Ocean.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/science, position: Inv1
Sports   Serena Williams Survives First Round. Advertisement Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSJAN. 12, 2009 Serena Williams, who seemed visibly upset by a chair umpire’s mistake, rallied to pull out a 6-3, 6-7 (4), 7-5 first-round victory over Samantha Stosur of Australia in the Sydney International. Williams was serving for the match at 6-5 and 30-30 in the second set when the umpire, Asitha Attigala of Sri Lanka, missed a let call on Williams’s serve. Stosur went on to break Williams and won the ensuing tie breaker. Williams fought off four match points in the 10th game of the third set before breaking Stosur two games later to win the match. ¶Maria Sharapova’s shoulder injury will keep her out of the Australian Open, which begins Jan. 19. Sharapova told the tournament Sunday that she would not be able to defend her title. She also missed the Beijing Olympics and the United States Open because of the injury, and her recovery has been slower than expected. A version of this brief appears in print on , on page D7 of the New York edition with the headline: Serena Williams Survives First Round. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
U.S.   U.S.. U.S. Search slide shows All Multimedia » next 1 of 8 Practicing for the Parade Sign In to E-Mail or Save This The 95-member Blue Eagles marching band from Austell, Ga. successfully raised the money to travel to and perform in the inaugural parade for President-elect Barack Obama. The Blue Eagles, who hail from South Cobb High School, practiced in the parking lot. Photo: David Walter Banks for The New York Times related Article: Rejuvenated and Off to the Big Parade Home U.S. Log In Register Now Copyright   The New York Times Company Privacy Policy Contact Us Help Work for Us Site Map campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_personalized_isEDU_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/slideshow/yr/mo/day/us/0113-BANDPRACTICE_index.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/slideshow/yr/mo/day/us, position: Inv1
Arts   Correction. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content Skip to navigation View mobile version The New York Times Arts|Correction Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Supported by Arts Correction JAN. 12, 2009 Continue reading the main story Share This Page Continue reading the main story A report in the “Arts, Briefly” column on Monday about plans by two comic-book companies to mark the inauguration of Barack Obama misstated the surname of the publisher of one, Dark Horse Comics, that is sending several comics to Mr. Obama. He is Mike Richardson, not Richard. A version of this correction appears in print on , on page A4 of the New York edition with the headline: Corrections. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Continue reading the main story What's Next Loading... Go to Home Page » Site Index The New York Times Site Index Navigation News World U.S. Politics N.Y. Business Tech Science Health Sports Education Obituaries Today's Paper Corrections Opinion Today's Opinion Op-Ed Columnists Editorials Contributing Writers Op-Ed Contributors Opinionator Letters Sunday Review Taking Note Room for Debate Public Editor Video: Opinion Arts Today's Arts Art & Design ArtsBeat Books Dance Movies Music N.Y.C. Events Guide Television Theater Video: Arts Living Automobiles Crossword Food Education Fashion & Style Health Jobs Magazine N.Y.C. Events Guide Real Estate T Magazine Travel Weddings & Celebrations Listings & More Classifieds Tools & Services Times Topics Public Editor N.Y.C. Events Guide Blogs Multimedia Photography Video NYT Store Times Journeys Subscribe Manage My Account Subscribe Subscribe Times Insider Home Delivery Digital Subscriptions NYT Opinion Crossword Email Newsletters Alerts Gift Subscriptions Corporate Subscriptions Education Rate Mobile Applications Replica Edition International New York Times Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Business   Hedge Fund Executive to Lead Borders. Advertisement Advertisement By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED and ZACHERY KOUWEJAN. 13, 2009 The Borders Group, the troubled book chain, plans to name a hedge fund executive as its chairman on Tuesday as part of its effort to stay afloat, a person with knowledge of the announcement said. The appointment of the executive, Richard McGuire, to replace Larry Pollock as chairman would occur a week after Borders named Ron Marshall, a private equity executive with corporate turnaround experience, as its chief executive. Mr. McGuire, known as Mick, is an executive at Pershing Square Capital Management, the activist fund that is Borders’s largest shareholder and has agitated for change at the company over the last year. Borders, based in Ann Arbor, Mich., has been working with restructuring advisers to assist in negotiating with vendors and lenders, people briefed on the matter said. These include AlixPartners, a consulting firm; Jones Day, a law firm with a well-regarded restructuring practice; and Rothschild, the investment bank. Several of these advisers have worked for Borders for months, and their hiring does not necessarily mean that it will file for bankruptcy. The advisers declined to comment. A Borders spokeswoman declined to comment. Beyond its shares in Borders, Pershing Square also lent the company $42.5 million in April. That comes due next month. Pershing Square’s main fund lost money in 2008, hobbled by losing bets not only on Borders but also other retailers, including Target. Advertisement Long an also-ran to Barnes & Noble, Borders has lost business to online rivals like Amazon.com. Now, in one of the toughest environments on record for retailers, the company must contend with its heavy debt load. Pershing Square, led by William Ackman, has been active in calling for changes at the company. Last spring, Borders put itself on sale at the behest of the hedge fund, but by November took itself off the auction block as a merger with Barnes & Noble became increasingly unlikely. (On Friday, Pershing Square said in a filing that it had sold its 11.8 percent stake in Barnes & Noble.) Mr. McGuire of Pershing Square recruited Mr. Marshall to Borders. Shares in Borders fell 16 percent on Monday to 62 cents. They have fallen 93 percent over the last 12 months. The New York Stock Exchange recently warned Borders that it could face delisting for failing to maintain a $1 stock price for 30 consecutive trading days, a problem that the company has six months to correct. With a market value of about $37.5 million, Borders is also approaching the minimum requirements of the Big Board. If Borders’s market value falls below $25 million for 30 consecutive trading days, the company will be delisted automatically. On Monday, the company said that holiday sales in the nine-weeks that ended Jan. 3 dropped 11.7 percent, to $868.8 million. A version of this article appears in print on , on page B11 of the New York edition with the headline: Hedge Fund Executive to Lead Borders. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Foreign   Iran Gives Hamas Enthusiastic Support, but Discreetly, Just in Case. Advertisement Advertisement By MICHAEL SLACKMANJAN. 12, 2009 CAIRO — Late last month, Iran’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, declared that anyone killed defending Palestinians in the Gaza Strip would be rewarded in heaven as a martyr. Young men began lining up — 70,000 in all — to go off and die. A week later, however, Ayatollah Khamenei announced without explanation that no one was going anywhere to fight. “I thank the pious and devoted youth who have asked to go to Gaza,” he said in a televised address. “But it must be noted that our hands are tied in this arena.” While the fighting continues in Gaza and negotiations for a cease-fire take place in Egypt, officials in Iran are treading carefully because they, too, have a great deal at stake. Iran is trying to position itself as the regional superpower, while also trying to generate maximum leverage before expected talks with the incoming Obama administration. To achieve those goals, though, Iran needs Hamas to declare at least a moral victory in its war with Israel. Then, Israel and Washington’s Arab allies would be weakened, and without Iran’s having to get involved in battle. Iran’s leaders are leery of siding publicly with Hamas because of the potential consequences of an Israeli victory. A Hamas defeat by Israel would deprive Iran not only of a valuable proxy force on the border with Israel but of a trump card to play with Washington, and it would further alienate it from the leadership of Egypt, Jordan and Saudi Arabia. Advertisement “Iran wants to sit at the negotiating table with Obama with all the cards of the region in hand: Palestine, Lebanon, Iraq, the relationship with Syria,” said Mustafa el-Labbad, an Iranian expert based in Cairo. “They are also being smart. They’re trying not to antagonize the U.S. very much, but with the Arabs they are going at it very hard, very roughly.” For months, even before Israel invaded Gaza to stop rocket fire, Iranian officials and their proxies had been viciously attacking Egyptian and Saudi leaders for not doing enough to end the Israeli-imposed blockade of Gaza. But Iran does not function as a purely ideological state, and it does not operate from one center of power. When events started growing too hot, Ayatollah Khamenei stepped in and cooled talk of thousands of martyrs streaming to Gaza. Advertisement Commentators in Iran said that Ayatollah Khamenei decided it was time to act as a pragmatic brake on the ideologically radical president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. The president and his allies had stoked rage across Iran over what they said was the failure of Arab leaders to do more to end the Israeli fighting. But there was a big difference between rhetorical support, even encouragement, and direct involvement. “Hamas is a very practical and useful tool for Iran, not an ideological one at all,” said Saeed Leylaz, an economist and political commentator in Tehran. “It is a very good tool for Iran, especially in its dealings with the U.S. What is happening right now in Gaza has made it easier for Iran to promote anti-U.S. feelings among Muslims.” Iran’s policy toward Hamas and the Gaza fighting is also related to the country’s own difficult domestic situation. Iran’s economy is struggling, weighed down by rampant inflation and undermined by the precipitous drop in oil prices. The Gaza fighting served as a useful distraction from local problems, but it also threatened to backfire on the state if the public perceived that the country’s now scarce resources were being used to help anyone other than Iranians themselves. “Iran is going through a very sensitive internal situation,” said Farzaneh Roostai, the foreign editor of the daily newspaper Etemad. “We are faced with major economic and political problems, such as falling oil prices, which are affecting the budget. The state media tried to divert people’s attention from these problems by bombarding them with propaganda. But it hasn’t worked.” Iran’s relationship with Hamas is one of shared interests. By pedigree, the sides are unlikely allies, with Iran a Shiite theocracy and Hamas a fundamentalist Sunni organization. Hamas, for example, praises Saddam Hussein, while Iran views him as a psychotic killer. But Hamas, a pariah to Egypt and Jordan, has received money and training from Iran, while the group has provided Iran with a powerful surrogate to undermine American and Israeli interests in the region. While Iran is the primary patron of Hamas, the two do not enjoy the same seamless relationship that Iran has with Hezbollah, the Lebanese Shiite militia and political organization that Tehran helped to form. Advertisement Giving voice to these conflicting currents, Muhammad Mir Ali Mohammadi, Iran’s spokesman at the Iranian consulate to the United Nations, said in an e-mail message that Iran’s support is for the Palestinians in general, not specifically for Hamas. “I should repeat the Iranian position that our support is moral and humanitarian for the whole cause of Palestine and the Palestinian people,” he wrote. “It means if Israel’s attack was toward the West Bank, we would be also against that. I understand efforts to separate Hamas from other parts and Iran from Arabs.” Even before the war in Gaza began, Iran started an aggressive public campaign attacking Egypt and Saudi Arabia for failing to bring an end to the Israeli blockade of the Gaza Strip. The attacks were aimed at King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia and President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt. “King Abdullah, the puppet king of Saudi Arabia, is not expected to ignore the demands of his American and Zionist masters and frown at what is going on in Gaza,” read a column in Iran’s most conservative newspaper, Kayhan, which is aligned with Ayatollah Khamenei. The paper also said, “one cannot expect Hosni Mubarak, who has on several occasions demonstrated his subservience to the Zionists, to open the Rafah crossing for the disaster-struck people of Gaza.” On the ground, demonstrators gathered outside embassies in Tehran for 10 days, demanding an end to the killing of Palestinians. Events grew hotter still when protesters forced their way into the residential compound of the British Embassy in northern Tehran. That episode seems to be what convinced Iranian authorities that the president and his supporters needed to be reined in, political experts said. As the war continues to grind on, Iran and its Arab opponents continue to eye each other warily, with each side concerned the other will get the upper hand in negotiations over a cease-fire. For now, Iran is encouraging Hamas to hang on and refuse to give up. “With no doubt Hamas must continue resistance and it will definitely win,” Kazem Moussavi Bojnerdi wrote in Monday’s issue of Etemad Melli, a reformist Iranian newspaper. “The death toll that the Israelis are imposing on Hamas should not make them back down, and I am certain that they will not surrender. If they show any weakness, they will have to pay horrifying costs in the future.” Nazila Fathi contributed reporting from Tehran. A version of this article appears in print on , on page A10 of the New York edition with the headline: Iran Gives Hamas Enthusiastic Support, but Discreetly, Just in Case. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Movies   Daily Baggage: Jan. 13. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Daily Baggage Daily Baggage: Jan. 13 By David Carr | Jan. 13, 2009 | 1:44 The Bagger compares the Golden Globes to high school prom. Show More PlaylistUp Next in Daily Baggage ← PreviousNext →   Daily Baggage1:58 Daily Baggage: Feb. 6   Daily Baggage1:19 Daily Baggage: Feb. 5   Daily Baggage1:43 Daily Baggage: Feb. 4   Daily Baggage1:20 Daily Baggage: Feb. 3   Daily Baggage1:17 Super Bowl and Oscars, The Great Uniters   Daily Baggage1:27 Daily Baggage: Jan. 30   Daily Baggage2:10 Daily Baggage: Jan. 29   Daily Baggage1:32 Daily Baggage: Jan. 28   Daily Baggage1:50 Daily Baggage: Jan. 15   Daily Baggage1:27 Daily Baggage: Jan. 14   Now Playing Daily Baggage1:44 Daily Baggage: Jan. 13   Daily Baggage1:39 Daily Baggage: Jan. 12   Daily Baggage1:23 Daily Baggage: Jan. 9   Daily Baggage1:53 Daily Baggage: Jan. 8   Daily Baggage2:13 Daily Baggage: Jan. 7   Daily Baggage2:21 Daily Baggage: Jan. 6   Daily Baggage1:40 Daily Baggage: Jan. 5   Daily Baggage Daily Baggage: Dec. 18   Daily Baggage Daily Baggage: Dec. 17   Daily Baggage Daily Baggage: Dec. 16   Daily Baggage Daily Baggage: Dec. 15 © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Science   Conflicted Scientists, Fish Oil Therapy and Migrant Surgeons. Advertisement Advertisement By RONI CARYN RABINJAN. 13, 2009 New Rules for Off-Label Drug Marketing New guidelines from the Food and Drug Administration will make it easier for pharmaceutical companies to promote drugs for unapproved uses by distributing medical journal articles to physicians, The Associated Press reports. Currently the companies are barred from advertising so-called off-label use — giving drugs to patients with conditions for which the medicines are not approved. Report: Research Scientists Still Not Disclosing Financial Ties The F.D.A. hasn't done enough to force scientists running clinical trials to disclose financial conflicts of interest, according to a new report by the inspector general of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. Some 42 percent of marketing applications approved by the F.D.A. were missing required financial information. Surgeons Spread Thin A shortage of general surgeons is forcing many hospitals to rely on temporary doctors to fill the void, The Wall Street Journal reports, and some general surgeons are taking to the road, going from hospital to hospital to make a living. Critics say the practice means doctors are operating in medical settings they aren't familiar with and may not provide continuity of care. Itinerant surgeons also add to hospital costs. Fish Oil Tested Against Rare Childhood Disease Doctors at Children's Hospital Boston are using fish oil to treat babies and children born with a rare condition called short bowel syndrome, the Boston Globe reports. Children with this condition need to be fed intravenously, but I.V. nutrition damages their livers. The new treatment replaces the standard supplement with one made of fish oil, which doesn't cause liver damage, doctors say. They have treated 112 children so far. Administration Criticized for Weak Anti-Smoking Policies The American Lung Association has blasted the Bush administration and Congress for failing to pass a bill that would have given the F.D.A. authority to regulate tobacco and for not ratifying an international tobacco control treaty, Reuters reports. The group says the 39-cent federal cigarette tax is way too low and also criticizes federal officials for not requiring state Medicaid programs to cover smoking cessation programs for the poor. Peanut Butter Used Commercially Caused Illness, Officials Say Health officials are urging restaurants, hospitals, nursing homes, schools and universities to throw out peanut butter linked to a salmonella outbreak in 43 states, the Associated Press reports. The recalled peanut butter was distributed by King Nut Companies of Ohio and is not sold directly to consumers. Minnesota health officials say their tests found a match between samples from a King Nut container and bacterial strains involved in the outbreak. The manufacturer is challenging the finding. Go to Home Page »
Sports   A New Chief for the ATP. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content Skip to navigation View mobile version The New York Times Tennis|A New Chief for the ATP Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Supported by Tennis | Sports Briefing | Tennis A New Chief for the ATP By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSJAN. 13, 2009 Continue reading the main story Share This Page Continue reading the main story Adam Helfant, a former lawyer for the N.H.L. and a Nike executive, was hired to run the men’s professional tennis tour. Helfant takes over the ATP a week before the start of the Australian Open. Helfant, 44, replaces Étienne de Villiers, who ran the tour since 2005 and stepped down last year. A version of this brief appears in print on , on page B15 of the New York edition with the headline: A New Chief For the ATP. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Continue reading the main story What's Next Loading... Go to Home Page » Site Index The New York Times Site Index Navigation News World U.S. Politics N.Y. Business Tech Science Health Sports Education Obituaries Today's Paper Corrections Opinion Today's Opinion Op-Ed Columnists Editorials Contributing Writers Op-Ed Contributors Opinionator Letters Sunday Review Taking Note Room for Debate Public Editor Video: Opinion Arts Today's Arts Art & Design ArtsBeat Books Dance Movies Music N.Y.C. Events Guide Television Theater Video: Arts Living Automobiles Crossword Food Education Fashion & Style Health Jobs Magazine N.Y.C. Events Guide Real Estate T Magazine Travel Weddings & Celebrations Listings & More Classifieds Tools & Services Times Topics Public Editor N.Y.C. Events Guide Blogs Multimedia Photography Video NYT Store Times Journeys Subscribe Manage My Account Subscribe Subscribe Times Insider Home Delivery Digital Subscriptions NYT Opinion Crossword Email Newsletters Alerts Gift Subscriptions Corporate Subscriptions Education Rate Mobile Applications Replica Edition International New York Times Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Washington   Senators Question Clinton. Subscribe Now Subscribe campaign: inyt2015_bar1_digi_usd_4L9UF -- 277474, creative: inyt2015_bar1_digi_buttononly_usd_4L9UF -- 406560, page: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/washington/0113-CLINTON.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day, position: Bar1 Log In Register Now Help More Slide Shows Washington Search Slide Shows All Multimedia » Close Senators Question Clinton « Previous 1 of 6 Next » Sign In to E-Mail Secretary of State-designate Hillary Rodham Clinton with Senators Christopher J. Dodd and John Kerry before a hearing of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, which is considering whether to confirm her appointment as President-elect Barack Obama's choice to be Washington's top diplomat. Credit: Doug Mills/The New York Times Home Washington © 2011 The New York Times Company Privacy Policy Your Ad Choices Contact Us Help Work for Us Site Map campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_personalized_isEDU_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/washington/0113-CLINTON.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day, position: Inv1
Arts   UrbanEye: Theater Over the Phone. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos UrbanEye UrbanEye: Theater Over the Phone By Jeremy Beiler | Jan. 14, 2009 | 3:55 Melena Ryzik reports on "Call Cutta In A Box," an experimental theater piece at the Goethe-Institut. Show More PlaylistUp Next in UrbanEye ← PreviousNext →   UrbanEye3:19 UrbanEye: Dumpster Pool Party   UrbanEye3:28 UrbanEye: Do the Right Thing   UrbanEye3:11 UrbanEye: American Theater Wing Gala   UrbanEye2:17 UrbanEye: MoMA Party in the Garden   UrbanEye3:35 UrbanEye: Party at the Waverly Inn   UrbanEye4:21 UrbanEye: Tribute to Tom Hanks   UrbanEye3:16 UrbanEye: 'Grey Gardens' Premiere   UrbanEye2:54 UrbanEye: The School of American Ballet   UrbanEye3:30 UrbanEye: The Tribeca Ball   UrbanEye4:08 UrbanEye: Memorial for Odetta   Now Playing UrbanEye3:55 UrbanEye: Theater Over the Phone   UrbanEye2:51 UrbanEye: Notorious in Brooklyn   UrbanEye3:22 UrbanEye: Clubbing for Christmas   UrbanEye UrbanEye: The McGarrigle Christmas Hour   UrbanEye3:37 UrbanEye: Alvin Ailey Gala   UrbanEye0:00 UrbanEye: The Moth Ball   UrbanEye0:00 UrbanEye: Guggenheim Gala   UrbanEye0:00 UrbanEye: Sundance in New York   UrbanEye0:00 UrbanEye: Chanel Mobile Art Pavilion   UrbanEye3:35 UrbanEye: The Country Music Hall of Fame   Culture3:07 UrbanEye: Carnegie Hall 's 118th Season © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Business   Blocks of Stock, Hard to Unload. Advertisement Advertisement By ROBERT CYRAN and MARTIN HUTCHINSONJAN. 13, 2009 Blocks of Stock, Hard to Unload Block trades are back. In just the last week, Bank of America dumped $2.8 billion worth of its shares in China Construction Bank. And Li Ka-shing, the Chinese billionaire, sold a $500 million chunk in Bank of China. It’s easy to see why these fast and risky trades are back in vogue. The trades occur when an institution wants to sell a large amount of stock — and fast. The holder sells the shares to an investment bank, usually at a fixed price. The bank then tries to immediately sell the shares on the market at a premium to the price it paid. The Chinese sales are being driven primarily by the expiration of lockups that prevented sales from taking place sooner. Western banks that made big investments are eager to cash in some of their winnings and shore up their balance sheets. The current crop of trades may be mostly China-related, but the need for cash is global. And selling large blocks of stock that is unwanted, or at least nonstrategic, is a favorable means of raising it. Yet investment banks have been burned badly by this practice in the past. The market price for shares can quickly drop once news of a large overhang of unwanted stock gets out. Banks that buy blocks of stock at too small a discount can end up with a huge loss. For example, Goldman Sachs and Deutsche Bank took losses that exceeded $100 million each on a block of Vivendi Universal stock in 2002. Advertisement Now, less competition means equity capital markets desks are under reduced pressure to buy the stock at an insufficient discount. Banks used to buy blocks at less than a 5 percent discount, but now it is as high as 12 percent. That’s because many of the banks that used to participate have simply disappeared, leaving the field open for Morgan Stanley, Merrill Lynch, Goldman and others. The business still contains big risks, however. Market volatility has surged, pushing up the price of hedging and the risk of holding unwanted stock on a bank’s already-stretched balance sheet. Block trades may be back and more tempting than ever. But rest assured, blowups will still take place. Support for Trade Trade among major economies, as defined by exports plus imports, fell some 8 percent in November from the year before. Some of the decline was because of tight financing, so trade may recover as financial conditions improve. If not, preventing trade from falling into a 1930s-style death spiral may become the world’s top priority. The 66 percent decline in trade is what made the Depression great. Trade statistics for November are remarkably consistent across all major economies. Trade in the United States was down 7 percent, primarily through lower imports. Japanese trade was down 20 percent, partly as a result of the strong yen, and German trade fell 7 percent. Chinese trade slipped 9 percent, an extraordinary reversal of that country’s usual rapid trade growth. Britain appears to be an exception, but when corrected for the drastically weakening pound, its trade too fell by 8 percent. None of this is necessarily catastrophic. For one thing, November was the first month in which the financial crisis of September and October made trade financing hard to obtain. Since November, financial conditions have eased, so trade may have already rebounded. In any case, an 8 percent decline is still modest compared with the slide during the Great Depression. Collapsing world trade, caused by the Smoot-Hawley tariff act and other protectionist actions, made the Great Depression pathologically persistent. It reversed the operation of comparative advantages, forcing goods to be manufactured in less efficient locations (for example, steel in small-scale, high-cost Britain rather than efficient Germany or Pennsylvania). Collapsing trade also caused pockets of extreme poverty like the shipbuilding town of Jarrow in Britain, which suffered without new orders. Absent a multilateral trade agreement, government attempts to stoke an economic recovery proved ineffectual. Creeping protectionism is a threat in all recessions, including today’s. If world trade continues to decline, the beneficial effects of globalization may reverse, while frightened politicians erect new trade barriers that actually worsen the problem. Then only a reverse Smoot-Hawley — a multilateral agreement requiring much freer trade — could halt the decline and prevent a repeat of the 1930s. In fact, such a deal might do more to end the recession than any stimulus package. ROBERT CYRAN and MARTIN HUTCHINSON For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. A version of this article appears in print on , on page B2 of the New York edition with the headline: Blocks of Stock, Hard to Unload. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Education   Correction. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content Skip to navigation View mobile version The New York Times Education|Correction Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Supported by Education Correction JAN. 13, 2009 Continue reading the main story Share This Page Continue reading the main story An article on Saturday about immigrant families who choose charter schools as a way to shield their children from the American youth culture misstated the age of Yaqub Ali, an eighth grader in Minneapolis, and referred incorrectly to his arrival in the United States. He is 14, not 13, and he arrived five years ago, not four. A version of this correction appears in print on , on page A4 of the New York edition with the headline: Corrections. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Continue reading the main story What's Next Loading... Go to Home Page » Site Index The New York Times Site Index Navigation News World U.S. Politics N.Y. Business Tech Science Health Sports Education Obituaries Today's Paper Corrections Opinion Today's Opinion Op-Ed Columnists Editorials Contributing Writers Op-Ed Contributors Opinionator Letters Sunday Review Taking Note Room for Debate Public Editor Video: Opinion Arts Today's Arts Art & Design ArtsBeat Books Dance Movies Music N.Y.C. Events Guide Television Theater Video: Arts Living Automobiles Crossword Food Education Fashion & Style Health Jobs Magazine N.Y.C. Events Guide Real Estate T Magazine Travel Weddings & Celebrations Listings & More Classifieds Tools & Services Times Topics Public Editor N.Y.C. Events Guide Blogs Multimedia Photography Video NYT Store Times Journeys Subscribe Manage My Account Subscribe Subscribe Times Insider Home Delivery Digital Subscriptions NYT Opinion Crossword Email Newsletters Alerts Gift Subscriptions Corporate Subscriptions Education Rate Mobile Applications Replica Edition International New York Times Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Food   Dining & Wine. Dining & Wine Search slide shows All Multimedia » next 1 of 8 Hungry Town Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Diane Gross and her husband, Khalid Pitts, wanted to live, work and eat out in their Washington D.C. neighborhood, which bridges Logan Circle and U Street. A year ago, they opened Cork Wine Bar. Their restaurant is part of a small revival taking place in neighborhoods that for years were considered too dangerous or too poor for a viable sit-down restaurant. Photo: Richard Perry/The New York Times related Article: Chefs Settle Down in the Real D.C. Home Dining & Wine Log In Register Now Copyright   The New York Times Company Privacy Policy Contact Us Help Work for Us Site Map campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_personalized_isEDU_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/slideshow/yr/mo/day/dining/20090114_WASH_index.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/slideshow/yr/mo/day/dining, position: Inv1
Foreign   Israel Halts Ship to Gaza, Iran Says. Advertisement Advertisement By NAZILA FATHIJAN. 13, 2009 TEHRAN — The Israeli Navy intercepted an Iranian ship carrying humanitarian aid for people in Gaza, Iran’s state-run radio reported Tuesday. The Iranian ship was stopped 20 miles off the coast of Gaza, according to the radio report, which also said that the ship, carrying food and medicine, left the southern Iranian port of Bandar Abbas two weeks ago. The ship had been set to arrive at the port of Gaza on Saturday, reported Press TV, the government network. Press TV said the ship passed though the Suez Canal on Friday and had been waiting for permission to enter Gaza. The ship did not receive permission to pass through the Israeli embargo of Gaza, Ahmad Navab, an Iranian official in charge of the aid, told the radio station. He said efforts would be made to try to send the aid to Gaza through the Rafah crossing at the border of Egypt and Gaza. Iran is one of the main supporters of Hamas, which controls Gaza. Demonstrators in Iran have protested the killing of Palestinians in Gaza. Iran’s supreme religious leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, who had urged Muslims to help Palestinians in Gaza fight Israel, banned them from going last week. He called Tuesday for Muslims to boycott products linked to Israel. “Muslims should avoid any action which might bring profit for Israelis,” the ISNA news agency quoted him as saying. A version of this article appears in print on , on page A12 of the New York edition with the headline: Israel Halts Ship to Gaza, Iran Says. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Movies   Daily Baggage: Jan. 14. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Daily Baggage Daily Baggage: Jan. 14 By David Carr | Jan. 14, 2009 | 1:27 The Bagger gets ready for Sundance. Show More PlaylistUp Next in Daily Baggage ← PreviousNext →   Daily Baggage1:55 Daily Baggage: Feb. 9   Daily Baggage1:58 Daily Baggage: Feb. 6   Daily Baggage1:19 Daily Baggage: Feb. 5   Daily Baggage1:43 Daily Baggage: Feb. 4   Daily Baggage1:20 Daily Baggage: Feb. 3   Daily Baggage1:17 Super Bowl and Oscars, The Great Uniters   Daily Baggage1:27 Daily Baggage: Jan. 30   Daily Baggage2:10 Daily Baggage: Jan. 29   Daily Baggage1:32 Daily Baggage: Jan. 28   Daily Baggage1:50 Daily Baggage: Jan. 15   Now Playing Daily Baggage1:27 Daily Baggage: Jan. 14   Daily Baggage1:44 Daily Baggage: Jan. 13   Daily Baggage1:39 Daily Baggage: Jan. 12   Daily Baggage1:23 Daily Baggage: Jan. 9   Daily Baggage1:53 Daily Baggage: Jan. 8   Daily Baggage2:13 Daily Baggage: Jan. 7   Daily Baggage2:21 Daily Baggage: Jan. 6   Daily Baggage1:40 Daily Baggage: Jan. 5   Daily Baggage Daily Baggage: Dec. 18   Daily Baggage Daily Baggage: Dec. 17   Daily Baggage Daily Baggage: Dec. 16 © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Obituary   Pio Laghi, Papal Envoy, Dies at 86. ROME -- Cardinal Pio Laghi, a veteran Vatican diplomat who in 2003 urged President Bush not to start the war in Iraq, died Saturday in Rome. He was 86. He died at a hospital in Rome where he had been receiving treatment for a blood disease, Vatican Radio said in a statement. A native of Italy and a star of the Vatican diplomatic corps, Cardinal Laghi played a crucial role in establishing formal diplomatic relations between the United States and the Holy See in 1984, when President Reagan and Pope John Paul II formed an alliance that helped end the cold war. He served as the Vatican's first papal nuncio to Washington until he was called back to Rome in 1990. He was named a cardinal in 1991. During his time in Washington, the cardinal became friendly with Vice President George H. W. Bush and sometimes played tennis with him while developing close ties to the larger Bush clan. Knowing of his rapport with the family, the pope, in the prelude to the most recent war in Iraq, sent Cardinal Laghi to convey a message to President Bush, asking him not to go to war. In a meeting at the White House in March 2003, the cardinal expressed concern about ''the suffering of the people of Iraq and those involved in the military operation'' and ''a further instability in the region and a new gulf between Islam and Christianity,'' he said in a news conference after the meeting. In a statement issued Sunday, President Bush called Cardinal Laghi ''a friend who, in his more than 60 years of service to the Catholic Church, worked tirelessly for peace and justice in our world.'' He added that he ''always strove to unite people of all religions and promote reconciliation, religious freedom and tolerance.'' Pio Laghi was born in 1922 in Castiglione, in the province of Forl?esena, in the Emilia Romagna region of northern Italy. Educated by Silesians, he received a degree in theology from the Pontifical Lateran University in 1942. He was ordained a priest in 1946. He entered the diplomatic corps in 1952 and served in Nicaragua, India, the United States, Argentina and the Middle East, including as the Vatican representative in Jerusalem. One of the most contentious periods of Cardinal Laghi's career was as papal nuncio to Argentina from 1974 to 1980, when thousands died in the military dictatorship's so-called dirty war against those said to be domestic subversives. The Roman Catholic Church was accused of being complicit with the regime. Responding in 1997 to criticism from relatives of those who had been ''disappeared'' by the regime, Cardinal Laghi said that ''by the end of 1979, I was certain that the violation of human rights had become systematic and I condemned it,'' the ANSA news agency reported. A gifted diplomat trusted with difficult missions, Cardinal Laghi in 2001, during a Palestinian uprising against Israeli occupation known as the second intifada, was sent to deliver a message from the pope to Ariel Sharon, the prime minister of Israel, and Yasir Arafat, the leader of the Palestinian Authority, calling for the resumption of dialogue between Palestinians and Israelis. ''He was very, very attentive to his interlocutors,'' said Massimo Franco, who interviewed the cardinal extensively for his book ''Parallel Empires: The Vatican and the United States -- Two Centuries of Alliance and Conflict,'' published by Doubleday this month. ''He wasn't humble,'' Mr. Franco said. ''He was a professional who had a very strong sense of power. But he knew how to put himself in others' shoes.'' While some papal envoys to the United States have ''struggled to speak the language and to understand the unique dynamics of American culture,'' Cardinal Laghi ''broke that mold,'' said John L. Allen Jr., a columnist for The National Catholic Reporter. ''He understood America, and perhaps most importantly, he really liked it.'' After being named the Vatican's representative in Washington in late 1980, Cardinal Laghi went on to develop strong ties with President Reagan, who saw the Polish pope as a way to help open Poland in the waning days of the Soviet Union. In his book, Mr. Franco relates how the cardinal once explained liberation theology, the social-justice-minded strain of Catholicism popular in Latin America, to President Reagan. ''Theology is like spaghetti, Mr. President. Served with too much sauce and too much salt,'' it is ''bad for the digestion,'' he reportedly said. ''Liberation theology, as served up by the Sandinistas and the priests who support them, is ruined by too much seasoning.'' A devoted soccer fan and a supporter of the Turin team Juventus, Cardinal Laghi several years ago delivered the opening kick to start the Vatican's internal soccer tournament, Mr. Franco said. In recent weeks, Cardinal Laghi had expressed enthusiasm for President-elect Barack Obama, calling his election ''a liberation from that horrendous original sin which for so many years stained the image and nature of the United States, and that is slavery,'' Vatican Radio quoted him as saying. PHOTO: Cardinal Pio Laghi in March.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ALESSANDRO DI MEO/E.P.A.) Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers. New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse.
Science   Dangerous Cribs, Drugstore Doctors and Rising S.T.D.’s. Advertisement Advertisement By RONI CARYN RABINJAN. 14, 2009 S.T.D. Rates Increasing in the U.S. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, rates of infection with chlamydia and syphilis increased in the United States in 2007, the latest year for which data are available, The Los Angeles Times reports. For several years, rates of gonorrhea infection have held study. Chlamydia infections, which can cause infertility in women, now top 1.1 million in the U.S., the highest figure since record-keeping began. The Doctor Will See You in Aisle 12 Walgreen Co. plans to launch a network of pharmacies, in-store clinics and health centers that will be marketed to corporate and government employers, The Wall Street Journal reports. Participating employees would be able to get checkups, preventive care, dentistry and optometry services, as well as discounted prescriptions. F.D.A.: Asthma Drugs Not Linked to Suicide Officials at the Food and Drug Administration say data submitted by drug makers do not show an association between asthma medications and suicide, The Associated Press reports. Since the studies were not designed to detect such an association, however, the agency will continue to examine possible links to behavioral problems. Baby Cribs Recalled Due to Suffocation Hazard The makers of Stork Craft baby cribs is recalling more than a million cribs in Canada and the United States because of a potential suffocation hazard, USA Today reports. The U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission says the metal brackets used to support the mattress and mattress board can crack and break. The cribs were sold at major retailers like Kmart, Wal-Mart and J.C. Penney. D.C. Families Turning to State Health Insurance for Children The economic crisis is driving many Washington, D.C., area families to turn to their states for children's health insurance, The Washington Post reports, and large numbers of these families are qualifying for coverage as employers cut jobs and benefits. Requests are up sharply even in the affluent suburbs of Virginia and Maryland. Go to Home Page »
Sports   A Commission- Free Tour of the Sports Landscape. Advertisement Advertisement By LYNN ZINSERJAN. 14, 2009 Today, we take a page out of the Yankees playbook, and no, not by spending $423.5 million on three really cool accessories. In honor of their hiring a real estate agent to sell luxury seats, we are taking you on a tour of Web real estate. We will show you some nifty sports stories, very few fixer-uppers, all while being impeccably polite and relentlessly chipper. Best of all, we work commission-free! At the top of today's listings, we give you the "wow" factor of Kentucky's Jodie Meeks scoring 54 points in a college basketball game that would have otherwise escaped notice outside the Southeastern Conference. He broke Dan Issel's 39-year-old school record for points in a game, and as ESPN's Pat Forde reminds everyone, that is a big deal. "When you say Issel's name aloud in the commonwealth of Kentucky, a heavenly chorus follows and those within earshot bow their heads," Forde writes. "It's a state law." It does take some doing for college basketball to grab a headline in the middle of the N.F.L. playoffs, with baseball free agents commanding salaries rivaling the Wall Street losses and Russian-on-Russian violence in the N.H.L. The N.F.L. news is mostly of the "Huh? What happened?" variety after last weekend's head-scratching results. Yahoo sports columnist Dan Wetzel kindly acquaints us to Cardinals Coach Ken Whisenhunt, who has his once-ridiculed team a game away from a Super Bowl. Advertisement And Mark Kriegel makes the case on Foxsports.com that Ray Lewis is the best defensive player in history: "He has a quality most often attributed to great point guard and quarterbacks, an ability to raise the game of those around him. As it pertains to both defense and leadership, he sets the standard." In the actual shopping-for-real-estate world, Patriots personnel chief Scott Pioli becomes an actual Chief, as in Kansas City's general manager. Kansas City Star columnist Joe Posnanski is impressed with the choice. Others speculate it might be the end of Herm Edwards as coach, so you might throw one more house listing on the pile. In a more metaphorical move, former Colts coach Tony Dungy is being pushed by Senator Evan Bayh of Indiana as a candidate to lead a national fatherhood initiative under President-elect Barack Obama. In the baseball market, now that pitcher Derek Lowe has a new toney Atlanta address, Braves fans are perhaps reassessing their harsh judgment of their team's leadership only days after losing John Smoltz. "So how do you like your blue-eyed general manager now, Braves fans?" writes Journal-Constitution columnist Mark Bradley. "Still think he's incompetent? That he has wrecked the organization? That he should be tarred and feathered and fired forthwith? The man who lost John Smoltz has just landed two starting pitchers healthier than John Smoltz." This comforting thought comes to the world of golf today: the self-announced news that Tiger Woods's injury rehabilitation now includes swinging longer irons and a driver. That sound you here is an entire sport sighing in relief. To end on a much more conflicted note, there are contrasting stories from the N.B.A. and N.H.L., just in case you need a reason to smile or just feel icky. First, Yahoo sports' Adrian Wojnarowski details the latest in the Darius Miles soap opera, reporting that the Trail Blazers have tried everything short of a voodoo doll to wreck his chances to come back and play in the N.B.A. this season. Feel free to feel icky about both sides of this depressing saga. In hockey, the Chicago Tribune reports on the happy ending to a story about a poor kid who had a treasured stick, given to him by Detroit's Henrik Zetterberg, stolen at the Winter Classic. The stick was sold, the buyer heard the story and mailed the stick back to 14-year-old Kalen Plew. If you prefer an old-fashioned hockey grudge match, you might tune into tonight's game between the Penguins and Capitals. Forget the trumped-up Sidney Crosby-Alex Ovechkin rivalry. The real one is between Ovechkin and Penguins center Evgeni Malkin. Read about why Ovechkin hits his fellow Russian with such gusto. Advertisement Perhaps they once bid on the same apartment in Moscow? Go to Home Page »
Travel   Q&A With Leon Logothetis, a $5-a-Day Traveler. Advertisement Advertisement JAN. 13, 2009 By Matt Gross There’s travel, there’s frugal travel and then there’s Leon Logothetis. In his television show, “Amazing Adventures of a Nobody,” which airs on the Fox Reality Channel (an all-reality channel on cable and satellite), Mr. Logothetis, a bald 31-year-old Briton, roams the world on an inconceivably low budget: He circled the United Kingdom on £5 a day, and got from Times Square to the Hollywood sign on $5 a day. And in the third season beginning Jan. 25, he journeys from Paris to Moscow on just 5 euros a day. Mr. Logothetis spoke about his no-budget travel strategies by telephone from Las Vegas, where he’d just spent an atypically unexciting New Year’s Eve.. What’s the greatest challenge of traveling on $5 a day? When you travel with that kind of money, you are entirely at the mercy of strangers. Because $5 doesn’t get you anywhere. You can’t really do anything. How do you work up the nerve to ask for help? One of the ways that I approach people is by using humor. Humor, it’s — what’s the word? — it breaks the ice. I don’t take myself too seriously; I put all the power in their hands. And if they don’t want to help, O.K., no worry, thanks, have a nice day, and I understand: I wouldn’t help me, either. What’s the most stunning act of generosity you’ve received? I arrived in Indianapolis. I’d met an old lady on the train with her husband, and they put me up in a hotel. But that wasn’t the act. I woke up the next morning and I was chatting with this younger lady who had a 1-year-old son, and it turns out that she lived in Chicago. And she said to me — and this was within the first five minutes, I’m not exaggerating — she said to me, “If you can find your way to Chicago, I will give you the only set of keys to my house. You can stay in my house. I will be back the next day. Leave the keys in the flowerpot, and you can stay in my house. There’s chili in the fridge.” At the end, when she gave me her keys, she then said to me, “So, sorry, what’s your name?” Do you find you get more help from tourists or from locals? In America, it was primarily locals. And in England. In Europe, it was primarily tourists. American tourists, believe it or not, they saved me so many times, to the point that I would wake up in the morning and I’d be like, “O.K. guys, we’ve gotta find some Americans.” Advertisement Where’s the best place to travel cheaply? The farther east you get in Europe, the cheaper things become. Once I crossed the old Iron Curtain — Poland, Lithuania, Latvia — money stretched a long way. But then again, 5 euros doesn’t stretch far wherever you are. What’s the best deal you’ve ever gotten for 5 euros? When I was in a small seaside village called Whitby [U.K.], I managed to wrangle my way into a three-star hotel that was £120 a night for £1.47. What’s the worst 5 dollars you’ve ever spent? When I was on the American trip, I — you’ve been to Vegas, right? Not yet. Well, let me give you one word of advice: Don’t jaywalk. When you’re in Vegas, you’ll see that everyone jaywalks. Everyone. Every single person jaywalks. But for some reason, old Leon decided to jaywalk and he got a $190 jaywalking ticket. So, that was the worst spending of my $5. How do you deal with all the rejection? The only way I found to deal with it was the knowledge that there was going to be that one person that was going to help me. And when that one person helped me, it was such a high that all the negative stuff that happened previously was just washed away. Are you frugal in real life as well? I am to a certain degree, but I have my moments of not being. And specifically after the trip. When the trip’s done, I’m like, “That’s it.” My post-trip binge consists of going to the best restaurants, going shopping, staying in a very, very nice hotel, ordering five-course room-service meals and just not caring, really. Are you going to do Asia, Africa, South America, the Middle East? My aim is either Asia or South America. We’re in discussions about which ones to do next. If I did it in India, it would be 5 rupees. Five rupees is basically, like, you know it’s nothing. So, it gets harder and harder. See More » Go to Home Page »
Arts   Correction. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content Skip to navigation View mobile version The New York Times Movies|Correction Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Supported by Movies Correction JAN. 15, 2009 Continue reading the main story Share This Page Continue reading the main story An article on Monday about the Golden Globes awards ceremony, at which “Mad Men” was honored as best television drama, misidentified, in some editions, the party involved in a contract dispute with the show’s creator and executive producer, Matthew Weiner. It is Lionsgate, the studio that produces the show — not AMC, the cable channel that carries it. A version of this correction appears in print on , on page A4 of the New York edition with the headline: Corrections. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Continue reading the main story What's Next Loading... Go to Home Page » Site Index The New York Times Site Index Navigation News World U.S. Politics N.Y. Business Tech Science Health Sports Education Obituaries Today's Paper Corrections Opinion Today's Opinion Op-Ed Columnists Editorials Contributing Writers Op-Ed Contributors Opinionator Letters Sunday Review Taking Note Room for Debate Public Editor Video: Opinion Arts Today's Arts Art & Design ArtsBeat Books Dance Movies Music N.Y.C. Events Guide Television Theater Video: Arts Living Automobiles Crossword Food Education Fashion & Style Health Jobs Magazine N.Y.C. Events Guide Real Estate T Magazine Travel Weddings & Celebrations Listings & More Classifieds Tools & Services Times Topics Public Editor N.Y.C. Events Guide Blogs Multimedia Photography Video NYT Store Times Journeys Subscribe Manage My Account Subscribe Subscribe Times Insider Home Delivery Digital Subscriptions NYT Opinion Crossword Email Newsletters Alerts Gift Subscriptions Corporate Subscriptions Education Rate Mobile Applications Replica Edition International New York Times Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Business   Twittering Tips for Beginners. Advertisement Advertisement By DAVID POGUEJAN. 15, 2009 As a tech columnist, I'm supposed to be on top of what's new in tech, but there's just too much, too fast; it's like drinking from a fire hose. I can only imagine how hopeless a task it must be for everyone else. Which brings us to Twitter. Twitter.com is all the rage among geeks, although it has more hype than users at this point. (When I speak at tech and education conferences, I routinely ask my audience how many are on Twitter. Usually, it's 1 in 500.) Basically, you sign up for a free account at Twitter.com. Then you're supposed to return to that site periodically and type short messages that announce what you're doing. (Very short -- 140 characters max.) Then, you're supposed to persuade your friends and admirers to become your audience by subscribing to your utterances (called tweets). Big-name tech pundits amass tens of thousands of followers. Normal people may have five or six. I'll admit that, for the longest time, I was exasperated by the Twitter hype. Like the world needs ANOTHER ego-massaging, social-networking time drain? Between e-mail and blogs and Web sites and Facebook and chat and text messages, who on earth has the bandwidth to keep interrupting the day to visit a Web site and type in, "I'm now having lunch"? And to read the same stuff being broadcast by a hundred other people? Advertisement Then my eyes were opened. A few months ago, I was one of 12 judges for a MacArthur grant program in Chicago. As we looked over one particular application, someone asked, "Hasn't this project been tried before?" Everyone looked blankly at each other. Then the guy sitting next to me typed into the Twitter box. He posed the question to his followers. Within 30 seconds, two people replied, via Twitter, that it had been done before. And they provided links. Advertisement The fellow judge had just harnessed the wisdom of his followers in real time. No e-mail, chat, Web page, phone call or FedEx package could have achieved the same thing. I was impressed. So I've been Twittering for a couple of months, and I've learned a lot. I'm still dubious about Twitter's prospects for becoming a tool for ordinary people (rather than early-adopter techie types). But one thing's for sure: The whole thing would be a lot more palatable if somebody would explain the basics. Something like this: * You don't have to open your Web browser and go to Twitter.com to send and receive tweets. In fact, that's just silly. Instead, people download little programs like Twitterific, Feedalizr or Twinkle, they get the updates on their cellphones as text messages, or they use something like PocketTweets, Tweetie or iTweet for the iPhone. I've been using Twitterific for the Mac, which is a tall, narrow window at the side of the screen. Incoming tweets scroll up without distracting you. Much. * Your followers can respond to your tweets, either publicly or privately. Suppose someone named Casey responds to one of your tweets. You can reply to Casey in one of two ways. First, you can send a Direct Message, which only Casey sees. Second, you can respond with another public tweet--but as you can imagine, everyone but Casey will be completely baffled. It's obvious from the number of completely incomprehensible tweets ("No, only in Lichtenstein!") that not all Twitter fans have yet grasped the difference between these reply types. On the other hand, if you reply with a private Direct Message, Casey can't reply to IT--unless you've also subscribed to *Casey's* Twitter feeds. Seems like a pretty dumb design decision. Either you have to follow the whole world, or every conversation fizzles into silence after one exchange. Advertisement * It seems clear that you, as a tweet-sender, are not actually expected to respond to every reply. At least I sure HOPE that's the expectation. I mean, some popular Twitterers have 15,000 followers; you'd spend all day doing nothing but answering them all. * The Web is full of "rules" about the proper way to Twitter, and a lot of them are just knowier-than-thou garbage: How many tweets a day to send out. How many people you should follow. What you should say. And so on. The first adopters are milking their early advantage for all it's worth. I found one rule, though, that answered a long-standing question I had about Twitter: "Don't tweet about what you're doing right now." Which is weird, since that's precisely how the typing box at Twitter.com is labeled: "What are you doing?" I've always wondered who the heck would be interested in the mundane details of your life. As it turns out, though, most people broadcast other stuff in their tweets. They pose questions. They send links to interesting stuff they've found online. They pass along breaking news (Barack Obama announced his running mate on Twitter). * People can be just as snotty on Twitter as they are everywhere else on the Internet. At first, my own followers on Twitter were friendly and helpful. But I was having a bear of a time. For example, every time I tried to add a photo to appear by my name, it showed up fine on Twitter.com, but refused to appear in Twitterific. Also, if you searched for "Pogue" at Twitter.com, you would find my old, defunct account ("pogue"), but not my current, active one ("DavidPogue"), even though the search box says specifically that it will find people by their real names. (It's working now, but it was broken a couple weeks ago.) So I posted these two problems to my 1,900 followers. Most tried to help troubleshoot, but there was the predictable backlash: "Stop asking these newbie questions," wrote one guy. "Makes you look like a moron." * Another person criticized me for not following enough other Twitterers. The implication was that if you send out tweets but don't subscribe to a lot of other people, you're an egotist. So I signed up to follow prominent tech gurus like Guy Kawasaki, Tim O'Reilly and CrunchGear. But then I was astonished to see Guy send out tweets literally *every three minutes.* Advertisement "Holy cow," I thought. "Does this guy do anything all day but sit in front of Twitter?" I posed this question to my followers, too. They promptly informed me that some people, like Guy, use automated software robots to churn out tweets, largely to promote their own blogs, sites or other products. (That doesn't seem quite right to me.) In the end, my impression of Twitter was right and wrong. Twitter IS a massive time drain. It IS yet another way to procrastinate, to make the hours fly by without getting work done, to battle for online status and massage your own ego. But it's also a brilliant channel for breaking news, asking questions, and attaining one step of separation from public figures you admire. No other communications channel can match its capacity for real-time, person-to-person broadcasting. Go to Home Page »
Foreign   Italy: A High-Priority Mafia Arrest Near Naples. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content Skip to navigation View mobile version The New York Times Europe|Italy: A High-Priority Mafia Arrest Near Naples Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Supported by Europe | World Briefing | Europe Italy: A High-Priority Mafia Arrest Near Naples By RACHEL DONADIOJAN. 15, 2009 Continue reading the main story Share This Page Continue reading the main story The Italian authorities on Wednesday arrested a suspected leader of the Camorra, or Neapolitan Mafia, days after he had evaded capture through the sewage tunnels of Caserta, outside Naples. The man, Giuseppe Setola, 38, had been placed on Italy’s most-wanted list in connection with the murder in September of six African immigrants in Castelvolturno, outside Naples, and other suspected homicides. Interior Minister Roberto Maroni called Mr. Setola’s arrest “a major blow” to the Camorra. A version of this brief appears in print on , on page A10 of the New York edition with the headline: Italy: A High-Priority Mafia Arrest Near Naples. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Continue reading the main story What's Next Loading... Go to Home Page » Site Index The New York Times Site Index Navigation News World U.S. Politics N.Y. Business Tech Science Health Sports Education Obituaries Today's Paper Corrections Opinion Today's Opinion Op-Ed Columnists Editorials Contributing Writers Op-Ed Contributors Opinionator Letters Sunday Review Taking Note Room for Debate Public Editor Video: Opinion Arts Today's Arts Art & Design ArtsBeat Books Dance Movies Music N.Y.C. Events Guide Television Theater Video: Arts Living Automobiles Crossword Food Education Fashion & Style Health Jobs Magazine N.Y.C. Events Guide Real Estate T Magazine Travel Weddings & Celebrations Listings & More Classifieds Tools & Services Times Topics Public Editor N.Y.C. Events Guide Blogs Multimedia Photography Video NYT Store Times Journeys Subscribe Manage My Account Subscribe Subscribe Times Insider Home Delivery Digital Subscriptions NYT Opinion Crossword Email Newsletters Alerts Gift Subscriptions Corporate Subscriptions Education Rate Mobile Applications Replica Edition International New York Times Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Home   How to Prepare for an Emergency. Advertisement Advertisement By JAY ROMANOJAN. 14, 2009 WITH a new administration almost in place in Washington, all of the lead-up discussions and debates about readiness and preparedness are beginning to fade away. But the subject isn’t limited to political campaigns or inauguration ceremonies. In the wake of wide-scale emergencies in the last several years — from terrorist attacks and power failures to hurricanes and the recent debilitating snow and ice storms — the topic of preparedness is one very close to home. So emergency organizations are beefing up efforts to make sure that homeowners and renters are prepared if disaster strikes. As troubling as that prospect is, the programs — from information services to technological advances involving e-mail alerts and text messages — aim to at least make people think about the possibility of an emergency and what to do at home should one arise. The Ready Campaign of the Department of Homeland Security has encouraged people to put preparedness on their resolution list for 2009. According to both the agency and the American Red Cross, high on the priority list is having an emergency kit at home. Lesly Simmons, a Red Cross spokeswoman in Washington, said that it should contain essentials like first-aid supplies, clothing, blankets, tools, flashlights and battery-powered radios, as well as health supplies like insulin or asthma inhalers for medical conditions. Advertisement Depending on the emergency, people could be forced to stay at home for days or to leave. So the kit should also contain at least three days’ worth of bottled water and nonperishable food for each household member, Ms. Simmons said. It should be checked every six months and be in easy-to-carry containers, like backpacks or duffel bags. Also high on the list is a specific plan for what to do at home during any emergency. Terry Monrad, the acting press secretary of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, said the plan should include a written escape route from the home and an established meeting place, like a store or parking lot, where household members can gather. It should also specify how people will communicate if scattered. FEMA advises pet owners to determine where pets can be taken, as many emergency shelters do not allow animals. And owners should have up-to-date veterinary records and proper ID tags for all pets. Printed guides and a DVD with more suggestions for preparing your home are free at fema.gov/areyouready. The Red Cross (redcross.org) and Homeland Security Department (dhs.gov) offer scores of other suggestions for handling emergencies, like practicing the escape plan at least twice a year. Among the latest technological advancements, New York City is preparing to begin a system allowing residents to be plugged into an emergency-alert program in or out of the home. The free service, Notify NYC, has just completed a yearlong trial in four areas and is expected to be running citywide in the next six months, said Joseph F. Bruno, the commissioner of the city’s Office of Emergency Management. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg is expected to announce the starting date soon. The program will be available to those who register at nyc.gov/notifynyc “to receive messages either by telephone, e-mail or text message if an emergency occurs,” Mr. Bruno said. A version of this article appears in print on , on page D2 of the New York edition with the headline: How to Prepare For an Emergency. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Movies   Daily Baggage: Jan. 15. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Daily Baggage Daily Baggage: Jan. 15 By David Carr | Jan. 15, 2009 | 1:50 The Bagger reports from the Sundance Film Festival. Show More PlaylistUp Next in Daily Baggage ← PreviousNext →   Daily Baggage1:19 Daily Baggage: Feb. 10   Daily Baggage1:55 Daily Baggage: Feb. 9   Daily Baggage1:58 Daily Baggage: Feb. 6   Daily Baggage1:19 Daily Baggage: Feb. 5   Daily Baggage1:43 Daily Baggage: Feb. 4   Daily Baggage1:20 Daily Baggage: Feb. 3   Daily Baggage1:17 Super Bowl and Oscars, The Great Uniters   Daily Baggage1:27 Daily Baggage: Jan. 30   Daily Baggage2:10 Daily Baggage: Jan. 29   Daily Baggage1:32 Daily Baggage: Jan. 28   Now Playing Daily Baggage1:50 Daily Baggage: Jan. 15   Daily Baggage1:27 Daily Baggage: Jan. 14   Daily Baggage1:44 Daily Baggage: Jan. 13   Daily Baggage1:39 Daily Baggage: Jan. 12   Daily Baggage1:23 Daily Baggage: Jan. 9   Daily Baggage1:53 Daily Baggage: Jan. 8   Daily Baggage2:13 Daily Baggage: Jan. 7   Daily Baggage2:21 Daily Baggage: Jan. 6   Daily Baggage1:40 Daily Baggage: Jan. 5   Daily Baggage Daily Baggage: Dec. 18   Daily Baggage Daily Baggage: Dec. 17 © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Science   Webcam Doctors, Recalled Snacks and Young Mothers. Advertisement Advertisement By RONI CARYN RABINJAN. 15, 2009 Peanut Butter Crackers Recalled From Stores Kellogg Company is removing Austin and Keebler brand peanut butter cracker snacks from store shelves following a salmonella outbreak linked to peanut butter, Reuters reports. Kellogg says the step only is a precaution, but the Food and Drug Administration is investigating the company's peanut paste supplier, Peanut Corporation of America. Five deaths have been linked to the outbreak. Doctors Go Online in Hawaii Doctors in Hawaii start making online house calls today as part of a new initiative that will be available to patients 24/7, the Associated Press reports. Computers equipped with Webcams will facilitate live, face-to-face 'visits' with physicians, letting patients display an injury or rash, and then walk away with advice or a prescription. The service is provided for a fee by the Hawaii Medical Services Association. Colon Cancer Drugs Inappropriate for Some Patients, Group Says Many patients with advanced colon cancer should not receive some of the most advanced drugs used to treat the disease, The American Society of Clinical Oncology is now recommending. Studies have found that patients with certain genetic mutations do not benefit from the class of drugs including Erbitux and Vectibix, The Wall Street Journal health blog reports. Young Teenagers at Greater Risk for Death During Childbirth Girls who give birth before turning 15 are five times more likely to die in childbirth than women in their 20s, according to an annual United Nations report. Infants born to younger mothers are also at greater risk of dying than infants born to older mothers, The Associated Press reports. Go to Home Page »
Sports   The Past Is Prologue to History Repeating. Advertisement Advertisement By LYNN ZINSERJAN. 15, 2009 With almost every possible angle on the present-day editions of the N.F.L. playoff teams apparently exhausted, online journalistic outlets have turned to teams and people forgotten just long enough to make fascinating reads on a bleak winter day. So, after you take a look at a Times article on a Cardinals team that actually won something, consider the lessons of the Steagles, the mashed-together Pennsylvania football team that played one year during World War II and made the best of it in trying times. The article made us contemplate some other short-lived and perhaps ill-conceived combinations, like the ill-fated year Donovan McNabb and Terrell Owens spent as Eagles teammates, complete with television cameras filming Owens doing push-ups in his driveway. Let’s hope the history books of the future have links to YouTube. The Eagles, in fact, provide us with plenty of lessons from the past. Yahoo’s Dan Wetzel explains why Philly fans have always had an ambivalent relationship with McNabb when everyone else in the country seems to like him just fine. Advertisement Frank Fitzpatrick of the Philadelphia Inquirer delivers another tale from the mothballs, the story of how the former Arizona Republic columnist Bob Hurt inadvertently helped keep the Eagles in Philadelphia when Leonard Tose was shopping them to Phoenix in 1984. A tale of more recent history in Thursday’s Baltimore Sun tells us why Steelers receiver Hines Ward is the most hated player in Baltimore. And for those with an even shorter historical attention span, we give you the story of Cardinals receiver Anquan Boldin’s wacky season: “He tangled with management. His trade demands were rebuffed. He fractured his face. He lost his status as the best wide receiver in the state. And now comes what could be his last game in Glendale as a member of the Cardinals.” While the N.F.L. hogs the lesson plans today, there are sports leagues that are actually playing games more often than once a week. The N.H.L. staged a nifty one between Pittsburgh and Washington on Wednesday night, which ESPN’s Scott Burnside said was far more than a routine regular-season victory for the Capitals and their transcendent star, Alex Ovechkin. But the N.B.A. put up a noteworthy performance of its own, with San Antonio’s Roger Mason sinking the Lakers with a 3-point shot, despite Kobe Bryant’s typical Kobe-esque performance. The drama in basketball does not stop at the final buzzer these days. In Houston, the buzzers are sounding all over the place, writes David Aldridge on NBA.com. “The Rockets are putting a positive spin on this, but Waiting for Tracy is a play that nobody in Houston wants to see anymore — up to and including the big man, Yao Ming,” Aldridge writes. If your favorite part of N.B.A. telecasts were the silly T-Mobile commercials featuring Charles Barkley, you are out of luck. Advertising Age tells why T-Mobile pulled the plug. A few more articles to make you sad or confused, and one to make you laugh in puzzlement:  Men’s Journal’s Matthew Teague writes about the curious and tragic case of the former U.F.C. champion Evan Tanner.  Yahoo’s Jonathan Littman details how Barry Bonds’s lawyers may argue in his coming perjury trial that “the clear” wasn’t a steroid until it was discovered to be a steroid. Feel free to then discuss why there were not nuclear test-ban treaties until after there were nuclear weapons.  Wander over to Deadspin for a new reason to contemplate the wonder that is the former A.B.A. player and Providence College star Marvin Barnes, he of “I ain’t going on no time machine” fame. This is a recent local television “interview” Barnes conducted with the current Providence player Geoff McDermott. Advertisement Your extra-credit history assignment is to go read more about Barnes. If he did not exist, we might have had to invent him. Go to Home Page »
U.S.   Plane Crashes Into Hudson River. Subscribe Now Subscribe campaign: inyt2015_bar1_digi_usd_4L9UF -- 277474, creative: inyt2015_bar1_digi_buttononly_usd_4L9UF -- 406560, page: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/us/20090115-PLANECRASH.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/us, position: Bar1 Log In Register Now Help More Slide Shows U.S. Search Slide Shows All Multimedia » Close Plane Crashes Into Hudson River « Previous 1 of 15 Next » Sign In to E-Mail A US Airways plane from La Guardia Airport landed in the Hudson River shortly after takeoff. All 150 passengers and 5 crew members were reportedly safe. The plane is seen descending. Credit: Trela Media/Associated Press Related Article: Pilot Is Hailed After Jetliner’s Icy Plunge Home U.S. © 2011 The New York Times Company Privacy Policy Your Ad Choices Contact Us Help Work for Us Site Map campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_personalized_isEDU_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/us/20090115-PLANECRASH.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/us, position: Inv1
Arts   A Populist’s Legacy. Subscribe Now Subscribe campaign: inyt2015_bar1_digi_usd_4L9UF -- 277474, creative: inyt2015_bar1_digi_buttononly_usd_4L9UF -- 406560, page: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/arts/0117-WYETH.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/arts, position: Bar1 Log In Register Now Help More Slide Shows Arts Search Slide Shows All Multimedia » Close A Populist’s Legacy « Previous 1 of 8 Next » Sign In to E-Mail Andrew Wyeth, one of the most popular and also most lambasted artists in the history of American art, died on Friday, Jan. 16, 2009. He was 91. Michael Kimmelman writes: Mr. Wyeth, left, at his farm in Chadds Ford, Pa., in 1964, was the reclusive linchpin in a colorful family dynasty of artists, whose precise realist views of hardscrabble rural life became icons of national culture and sparked endless debates about the nature of modern art. Credit: Associated Press Related Article: Andrew Wyeth, Painter, Dies at 91 Home Arts © 2011 The New York Times Company Privacy Policy Your Ad Choices Contact Us Help Work for Us Site Map campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_personalized_isEDU_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/arts/0117-WYETH.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/arts, position: Inv1
Business   SAG Leader, in Shift, No Longer Seeks Strike Authorization. Advertisement Advertisement By EDWARD WYATTJAN. 16, 2009 LOS ANGELES — The executive director of the Screen Actors Guild has sent a letter to members of the union’s board proposing to put the latest contract offer from television and movie producers to a direct vote by the union rather than seek authorization for a strike. The proposal reverses the position of the executive director, Doug Allen, on how to proceed in the union’s effort to reach a new contract with the Alliance of Motion Picture and Television Producers, which represents the major Hollywood studios. The new approach is likely to face some opposition, however, among union members who have criticized Mr. Allen’s leadership. Some of those members say Mr. Allen’s hard-line stance in negotiations has left the union without a satisfactory proposal on which to vote. Mr. Allen’s letter, dated Wednesday, came just one day after a group of board members sought to oust him as the union’s lead negotiator. Though that effort failed, it appears to have undercut the ability of the union leaders to gather sufficient support for a strike authorization, which would require the approval of 75 percent of the members voting. Advertisement Previously, Mr. Allen and the union president, Alan Rosenberg, planned to ask union members to approve a measure that would allow a strike to be called if negotiators continued to be unable to reach an agreement with the producers’ group. The union had intended to send out strike authorization ballots on Jan. 2, but that plan was postponed when a large group of union members in New York and several prominent actors, including Tom Hanks and George Clooney, began to publicly oppose the strike authorization proposal, saying deteriorating economic conditions made a strike untenable. The 120,000-member union and the producers group have not negotiated since late November, when talks involving a federal mediator broke down. The union has been working without a contract since June 30; the two groups remain at odds over the terms of a new contract, which would include payments for Internet videos and other new media. A spokeswoman for the union declined to comment further on Mr. Allen’s letter. In it, Mr. Allen said that he would convene a conference call with board members this week to consider his proposal “that the strike authorization referendum be suspended and that management’s offer be put to the membership in a ratification vote.” A version of this article appears in print on , on page B2 of the New York edition with the headline: SAG Leader, in Shift, No Longer Seeks Strike Authorization. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Foreign   Study Looks at Mortality in Post-Soviet Era. Advertisement Advertisement By JUDY DEMPSEYJAN. 16, 2009 BERLIN — Rapid and widespread privatization in several former states of the Soviet Union and former Soviet satellites in Eastern Europe in the early 1990s contributed to rising mortality rates, particularly in Russia, according to a study published Thursday. The report, in the British medical journal The Lancet, said the results varied among the countries, depending on the pace of privatization, the official response to unemployment and the level of support from social organizations. The global financial crisis has set off a debate over the social consequences of rapid economic change that takes place without strong national institutions to support it. In Eastern Europe this week, demonstrations in Latvia and Bulgaria over the slow pace of reform turned into riots. The report, “Mass Privatization and the Post-Communist Mortality Crisis: A Cross-National Analysis,” is by David Stuckler, a sociologist at Oxford; Lawrence King of Cambridge; and Martin McKee, a professor at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine. “Rapid mass privatization as an economic transition strategy was a crucial determinant of differences in adult mortality trends in post-Communist societies,” they wrote in the report. The effects of privatization were “reduced if social capital was high.” Advertisement “These findings might be relevant to other countries in which similar policies are being considered,” they added. The report contends that life expectancy diminished in the early to mid-1990s in countries that were being rapidly transformed after the collapse of the Soviet Union. Even though the governmental and economic transitions occurred nearly two decades ago, the report said, “only a little over half of the ex-Communist countries have regained their pretransition life-expectancy levels.” From 1991 to 1994, life expectancy in Russia was reduced by five years. But life expectancy in Croatia and Poland improved in the same period. By last year, the life expectancy of Russian men was less than 60 years, compared with 67 years in 1985. The contrast between Russia and other countries, notably the Czech Republic and Poland, was striking because Poland was one of the first Eastern European countries to pursue what became known as the “shock therapy” model, which aimed to speed up the transition from a centralized, state-run economy to a capitalist, free-market one. Despite the immense upheaval, the transformation did not lead to higher mortality rates in Poland, the report says, possibly because of the country’s strong social institutions and also because Poles could emigrate or rely on Poles in Western Europe and North America for support. In the Czech Republic, mass privatization was handled in a more measured way, enterprise by enterprise, than in Russia, which underwent sweeping privatization. The outcomes were quite different, the report said. The authors suggest that the existence of trade unions, churches, sports, political organizations and other social organizations played a significant role in cushioning adults’ stress during the transitions. “In countries in which more than 45 percent of the population was a member of a social organization, mass privatization had no significant adverse association with mortality rates,” the report said. In the Czech Republic, more than 48 percent of adults belonged to some kind of social organization, while in former Soviet republics, social membership averaged less than 10 percent. Unlike the governments of Russia and some other former Soviet states, most governments in Eastern Europe have tried to mitigate the “harmful effects of unemployment” that are linked to mortality, including smoking and alcoholism, the report said. A version of this article appears in print on , on page A8 of the New York edition with the headline: Study Looks at Mortality in Post-Soviet Era. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Science   Anger’s Face, Children’s Clothing and Drug Company Layoffs. Advertisement Advertisement By RONI CARYN RABINJAN. 16, 2009 What Emotion Looks Like An autism researcher plans this week to release in the United States an instructional DVD that teaches autistic children what human expressions mean, the Associated Press reports. The DVD tells autistic children how to recognize emotions like happiness, anger and sadness through fictional adventures on a train, ferry and cable car. The project is the brainchild of Simon Baron-Cohen, director of the Autism Research Centre at the University of Cambridge. Children's Clothing Tested for Lead Clothing manufacturers are scrambling to test children's clothes for lead to make sure they comply with a new federal law to protect kids, The Los Angeles Times says. The Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act, passed last year, bars the sale of children's products that contain more than 600 parts per million of lead. The law takes effect on Feb. 10. Experimental Stem-Cell Drug Made Available to Some Patients The Food and Drug Administration has given Osiris Therapeutics Inc. a green light to offer its adult stem-cell therapy Prochymal to adults with life-threatening graft-versus-host disease, a complication of bone marrow transplants. The treatment will be offered under an expanded access program that allows for drugs still in clinical trials to be given to patients, according to The Baltimore Sun. Pfizer Plans Layoffs Pfizer may slash its sales force by a third, Bloomberg news reports, which could eliminate as many as 2,400 sales reps and managers. The company is on the verge of losing patent protection for many of its top-selling drugs. Go to Home Page »
Sports   Markov Helps Montreal Win Again at Home. Advertisement Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSJAN. 16, 2009 Andrei Markov had a goal and an assist, and Robert Lang had two assists to lead the Montreal Canadiens to a 3-2 victory against the Nashville Predators on Thursday night. Andrei Kostitsyn and Guillaume Latendresse also scored. Jaroslav Halak made 23 saves in his seventh straight start. Montreal improved to 5-0-1 at home since Dec. 13, when it wrapped up a franchise-record seven-game homestand with a 2-1 loss to Washington. J. P. Dumont and Vernon Fiddler scored for Nashville, which had won three of four. Pekka Rinne made 17 saves after recording his fourth shutout of the season in his last start. LIGHTNING 4, FLYERS 1 Martin St. Louis, Andrej Meszaros and Ryan Craig scored in a span of 2 minutes 3 seconds in the second period for host Tampa Bay. Mark Recchi tied Dale Hawerchuk for 17th place on the N.H.L.’s career points list with 1,409. Advertisement WILD 5, OILERS 1 Krys Kolanos and Cal Clutterbuck gave host Minnesota an early lead, and Niklas Backstrom made 20 saves to improve to 10-0 against Edmonton. SABRES 5, STARS 4 Jason Pominville scored in the sixth round of the shootout, and goaltender Ryan Miller turned aside five of six attempts for visiting Buffalo. BLUES 5, AVALANCHE 2 Patrick Berglund scored his 14th goal to take the lead among rookies and Cam Janssen added a rare goal for host St. Louis. MAPLE LEAFS 6, HURRICANES 4 Tomas Kaberle scored the go-ahead goal on a power play late in the third period after visiting Toronto lost a four-goal lead. SHANAHAN TO JOIN DEVILS Brendan Shanahan signed a contract with the Devils and will be in Columbus for the team’s game against the Blue Jackets on Friday. Shanahan played the last two seasons with the Rangers. CROSBY MISSES PRACTICE Sidney Crosby sat out Pittsburgh’s optional practice with an undisclosed injury, possibly to his left knee. Crosby, who had a magnetic resonance imaging test, may learn during the pregame skate Friday if he can play against Anaheim. A version of this article appears in print on , on page B11 of the New York edition with the headline: Markov Helps Montreal Win Again at Home. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
U.S.   U.S.. U.S. Search slide shows All Multimedia » next 1 of 11 Preparing for the Inauguration Sign In to E-Mail or Save This With officials issuing dire warnings about bridge and Metro station closings, limited hotel space and other logistical nightmares  while also promoting a tantalizing array of events and entertainers  an increasingly chaotic push-me, pull-you atmosphere is engulfing the capital days before the inauguration. Photo: Damon Winter/The New York Times related Article: Fearing Crowds, Some Avoid Inauguration Home U.S. Log In Register Now Copyright   The New York Times Company Privacy Policy Contact Us Help Work for Us Site Map campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_personalized_isEDU_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/slideshow/yr/mo/day/us/117INAUG_index.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/slideshow/yr/mo/day/us, position: Inv1
Arts   Corrections. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content Skip to navigation View mobile version The New York Times Arts|Corrections Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Supported by Arts Corrections JAN. 16, 2009 Continue reading the main story Share This Page Continue reading the main story Because of an editing error, a report in the “Arts, Briefly” column on Thursday about the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame’s new inductees, including the rap group Run-DMC, misstated the given name of a member of the group, who was shown in a picture with the report. He is Joseph Simmons, not Jason. A version of this correction appears in print on , on page A4 of the New York edition with the headline: CORRECTION . Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Continue reading the main story What's Next Loading... Go to Home Page » Site Index The New York Times Site Index Navigation News World U.S. Politics N.Y. Business Tech Science Health Sports Education Obituaries Today's Paper Corrections Opinion Today's Opinion Op-Ed Columnists Editorials Contributing Writers Op-Ed Contributors Opinionator Letters Sunday Review Taking Note Room for Debate Public Editor Video: Opinion Arts Today's Arts Art & Design ArtsBeat Books Dance Movies Music N.Y.C. Events Guide Television Theater Video: Arts Living Automobiles Crossword Food Education Fashion & Style Health Jobs Magazine N.Y.C. Events Guide Real Estate T Magazine Travel Weddings & Celebrations Listings & More Classifieds Tools & Services Times Topics Public Editor N.Y.C. Events Guide Blogs Multimedia Photography Video NYT Store Times Journeys Subscribe Manage My Account Subscribe Subscribe Times Insider Home Delivery Digital Subscriptions NYT Opinion Crossword Email Newsletters Alerts Gift Subscriptions Corporate Subscriptions Education Rate Mobile Applications Replica Edition International New York Times Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Business   Invest in Blue Chips and Cash at the Same Time. Advertisement Advertisement By CONRAD DE AENLLEJAN. 16, 2009 IT is tempting to buy stocks of sound, blue-chip businesses at current prices, but with few signs that economic conditions are about to improve, holding a lot in cash has much to recommend it too. It may be possible to do both with a single transaction. There are highly profitable, big-name companies that are leaders in their fields and have no or very little debt on their books and large bank balances. Their cash hoards should serve as a cushion until the good times start rolling, and when they do, the money can be put to good use to press a competitive edge. Investing in such companies is “a good way to hedge your bets,” said Thomas H. Forester, manager of the Forester Value fund. “Who knows where the market’s going? If it goes down more, it’s probably safer to hold companies that have a decent slug of cash.” If the market recovers, he added, the companies can make acquisitions at bargain prices. That is one appeal for him of the drug maker Pfizer. With nearly $10 billion of net cash on its books, it is in a strong position to buy a biotechnology company — perhaps Amgen, but probably something smaller, he said — whose skill in product innovation would mesh well with Pfizer’s extensive distribution capabilities. Mr. Forester also holds Microsoft, which he acknowledges caught a break when its approaches were rebuffed by Yahoo and Facebook last year. The would-be targets undoubtedly would fetch much lower prices today, and Microsoft could use some of its $19 billion in net cash to take another crack at them or go for something else. Advertisement Microsoft is also a choice of Erik R. Becker, manager of the Ivy Core fund, who says many cash-rich businesses can be found in technology industries, where conditions are unpredictable all the time. “Tech clearly operates on shorter product cycles,” he said. “There is more uncertainty about the future, so you don’t want to compound that by running low on cash.” Microsoft and three other tech blue chips that his fund owns — Google, Apple and Qualcomm — are unlikely to face that problem. All have net cash on their books equal to at least 10 percent of their market values and are at the top of their respective fields. Google dominates in online advertising. Microsoft, though having trouble making inroads in that area, remains the world’s largest software manufacturer and has a virtual monopoly in PC operating systems. Chips designed by Qualcomm earn it royalties on just about every cellphone sold. With smartphones taking off and China about to upgrade its communications infrastructure for third-generation services, earnings should remain robust, Mr. Becker predicted. Apple is likely to sell a lot of those cellphones, and it is a leader in portable music, video and game devices and the content played on them. The company is also home to marketing geniuses who have managed to persuade the world that Apple is a subversive, little-guy underdog. That combination of products and salesmanship has allowed Apple to build up $24 billion in cash. Strong market positions and healthy finances should buoy demand for the stocks of Apple and the others, but Mr. Becker says that they have been disrespected as much as far less worthy investments. The bear market “is so severe that even the best companies with great balance sheets have seen their stocks come down a lot,” he said. STEEP declines have left Apple and Google trading at about 15 times analysts’ estimates of 2009 earnings. Qualcomm trades at 14, and Microsoft, whose growth curve has leveled off markedly as a byproduct of the near ubiquity of Windows, trades at less than nine times estimated 2009 earnings. A rising market often rewards heavily indebted businesses leveraged to an economic and commercial rebound, but the reasonable valuations on these stocks should ensure that shareholders will not have to sacrifice future gains for current safety, Mr. Becker said. “You ought to be looking for the best franchises and best business models and position yourself for a recovery,” he advised. “You can still get some punch because they’re down a lot.” A version of this article appears in print on , on page B6 of the New York edition with the headline: Reading The Future In Cash. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Foreign   Security Council Hesitates on Somalia. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content Skip to navigation View mobile version The New York Times Africa|Security Council Hesitates on Somalia Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Supported by Africa | World Briefing | Africa Security Council Hesitates on Somalia By NEIL MacFARQUHARJAN. 16, 2009 Continue reading the main story Share This Page Continue reading the main story The Security Council on Friday unanimously endorsed the idea of deploying a United Nations peacekeeping force in Somalia, but put off until June a vote on whether to actually do it. European nations had put the brakes on an American attempt to create a peacekeeping mission immediately, and lack of support by the coming Obama administration raised further doubts about its eventual creation. On Wednesday, Susan E. Rice, the ambassador-designate, questioned the wisdom of sending a United Nations force when the country remained so unstable. The Council did vote to provide financial and other resources to help increase the African Union’s existing 3,000-soldier force to 8,000. A version of this brief appears in print on , on page A10 of the New York edition with the headline: Security Council Hesitates On Somalia. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Continue reading the main story What's Next Loading... Go to Home Page » Site Index The New York Times Site Index Navigation News World U.S. Politics N.Y. Business Tech Science Health Sports Education Obituaries Today's Paper Corrections Opinion Today's Opinion Op-Ed Columnists Editorials Contributing Writers Op-Ed Contributors Opinionator Letters Sunday Review Taking Note Room for Debate Public Editor Video: Opinion Arts Today's Arts Art & Design ArtsBeat Books Dance Movies Music N.Y.C. Events Guide Television Theater Video: Arts Living Automobiles Crossword Food Education Fashion & Style Health Jobs Magazine N.Y.C. Events Guide Real Estate T Magazine Travel Weddings & Celebrations Listings & More Classifieds Tools & Services Times Topics Public Editor N.Y.C. Events Guide Blogs Multimedia Photography Video NYT Store Times Journeys Subscribe Manage My Account Subscribe Subscribe Times Insider Home Delivery Digital Subscriptions NYT Opinion Crossword Email Newsletters Alerts Gift Subscriptions Corporate Subscriptions Education Rate Mobile Applications Replica Edition International New York Times Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Movies   The Carpetbagger. Channels & Shows Home Search Culture Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Get behind the scenes of Hollywood’s awards season, with close-up looks at Oscar-nominated films and exclusive red-carpet access to the hottest actors, actresses and directors. Recent Episodes in The Carpetbagger The Carpetbagger Culture 3:34 Dressing ‘Inherent Vice’ The Carpetbagger Culture 3:01 Patricia Arquette Grows Into ‘Boyhood’ The Carpetbagger Culture 2:09 Sundance in Slow-Mo   Clothes and Character 2:56 Dressing the Hawkings   Clothes and Character 3:36 In ‘Selma,’ Trench Coats Amid Protests The Carpetbagger Culture 2:26 David Oyelowo and ‘Selma’ The Carpetbagger Culture 4:45 Common and John Legend Perform ‘Glory’ The Carpetbagger Culture 3:02 Patti Smith’s Cinematic Lullaby The Carpetbagger Culture 2:22 Big Eyes, Big Lies Show more videos from The Carpetbagger Most Popular 1 World A Dyeing Life 2 U.S. Copwatch vs. Cops: After Freddie Gray 3 Opinion Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics 4 Opinion I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked 5 U.S. Best of Obama's Correspondents' Dinner Speech 6 U.S. Haunted by Columbine 7 Opinion Manufacturing China’s Future 8 Opinion Fashion vs. Art 9 World Spinning Ice Circle in Russia 10 Food Coconut Cluster Granola © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Science   Science Homework. Channels & Shows Home Search Science Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Science Science Homework By Emily B. Hager | Jan. 17, 2009 | 6:30 A new generation of scientists is using its own children in its research. Show More PlaylistUp Next in Science Next →   Science0:15 Spinning Ice Circle in Russia   Health3:01 Why It’s Hard to Keep the Pounds Off   U.S.0:34 Time-Lapse of Northern Lights in Alaska   Science0:27 Panoramic Image of Mars Landscape   Science0:49 The Scorpions Are Out Early This Year ScienceTake Science1:30 ScienceTake | Shake a Tail Feather   Europe1:18 Remembering Chernobyl   Science0:35 Gorillas in Danger of Extinction   Science1:36 Parrots: The Highlight Reel ScienceTake Science1:38 Debunking the Viper’s Strike © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Sports   Rangers Win in Overtime, Despite 12 Penalties. Advertisement Advertisement LYNN ZINZERJAN. 17, 2009 At some point in Friday night’s wild game against Chicago, the Rangers started thinking the universe had tipped against them. They were playing in a packed United Center against a young, talented Blackhawks team and the referees called them for an astonishing 12 penalties. So many of them came in pairs (there were five five-on-threes for Chicago), that the Rangers played much of the game under full assault. When they came out of it with a 3-2 overtime victory, after Chris Drury scored on a rare power play for the Rangers, they could hardly imagine what had just happened. “We battled so hard,” said Rangers goalie Henrik Lundqvist, who made 32 saves, 14 of them on Chicago power plays. “They kept calling us. I almost started laughing in the end. I’m almost not enjoying the win right now because I’m so upset with all the calls. But it was a great win. I can’t believe we killed that many five-on-threes.” By and large, the Rangers kept their composure as the penalties started piling up in an almost absurd fashion. The Blackhawks were called for seven penalties, but three of them came when Cam Barker instigated a fight in the second period. Rangers defenseman Marc Staal boiled over once, drawing a 10-minute misconduct for something he screamed from the penalty box, but Rangers Coach Tom Renney managed to hold his temper, as did the rest of the team. Advertisement “It almost felt like we were destined to win because of the composure we showed,” Renney said. Afterward, he was a little steamed. “Sure, there was a consistency,” Renney said. “They called everything under the bloody sun. I don’t know what half the calls were. Calls against us are what they are but boy, tell me if the other team’s that squeaky clean. In a game like this, I’m not sure I can buy that one. But that’s why I coach and officials referee.” The Rangers turned the Blackhawks’ onslaught into their most satisfying victory of the season. Chicago finally scored on its fifth five-on-three in the third to tie the score at 2-2, but the Rangers turned the tables in overtime, when Chicago forward Andrew Ladd was called for slashing center Brandon Dubinsky. And it was fitting that the winning goal came from the calmest Ranger of all. Drury had already scored a power play goal earlier in the game. He deflected a shot by defenseman Wade Redden two minutes 23 seconds into overtime, 11 seconds into the power play. “It’s hockey,” Drury said. “Things happen. You deal with them in a game and move on.” The Rangers did a good job of following Drury’s lead, as well as Lundqvist’s, as he turned away shot after shot from Chicago’s dangerous scorers. The Blackhawks had not lost a game at the United Center since mid-November. “Tonight’s loss was frustrating, considering the number of chances we had,” Chicago Coach Joel Quenneville said. “To score only one goal after having so many power plays is very unsettling, but you have to give credit to New York’s penalty kill.” The Rangers were happy to take that credit. “That was a great win,” Drury said. “On the road, in front of 20,000 people, an extremely talented, well-coached Blackhawks team, and we hung in there. It was a big win for our team that will hopefully carry us into the second half here.” The victory also came before a special audience. The two-game road swing here and at Pittsburgh was designated Dad’s Weekend and most of the players’ dads were along for the trip. In a particularly poignant twist, Lundqvist’s father, Peter, was watching from the stands. A year ago, Peter Lundqvist underwent brain surgery and is still struggling to recover. Lundqvist said his dad cannot see that well but was sure he enjoyed every big save. “It’s just great to have him here,” Lundqvist said. Go to Home Page »
U.S.   U.S.. U.S. Search slide shows All Multimedia » next 1 of 11 A Whistle-Stop Trip to Washington Sign In to E-Mail or Save This President-elect Barack Obama and Vice President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. waved from the back of a private rail car called the Georgia 300, built in 1939, which has carried former Presidents George Bush and Bill Clinton. The same blue vintage rail car carried Mr. Obama on a tour through Pennsylvania during his primary campaign. Photo: Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times related Article: Obama Arrives in Washington After Train Trip Home U.S. Log In Register Now Copyright   The New York Times Company Privacy Policy Contact Us Help Work for Us Site Map campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_personalized_isEDU_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/slideshow/yr/mo/day/us/20090117-TRAIN_index.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/slideshow/yr/mo/day/us, position: Inv1
Washington   Inaugural Words: 1789 to the Present. Subscribe Now Subscribe campaign: inyt2015_bar1_digi_usd_4L9UF -- 277474, creative: inyt2015_bar1_digi_buttononly_usd_4L9UF -- 406560, page: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/washington/20090117_ADDRESSES.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day, position: Bar1 Log In Register Now Help Home Page Today's Paper Video Most Popular Times Topics Search All NYTimes.com Washington World U.S. N.Y. / Region Business Technology Science Health Sports Opinion Arts Style Travel Jobs Real Estate Autos Published: July 3, 2011 Inaugural Words: 1789 to the Present A look at the language of presidential inaugural addresses. The most-used words in each address appear in the interactive chart below, sized by number of uses. Words highlighted in yellow were used significantly more in this inaugural address than average. (Related Article) In order to view this feature, you must download the latest version of flash player here. The New York Times | Send Feedback Sign In to E-Mail Home World U.S. N.Y. / Region Business Technology Science Health Sports Opinion Arts Style Travel Jobs Real Estate Autos Site Map © 2011 The New York Times Company Privacy Your Ad Choices Terms of Service Terms of Sale Corrections RSS Help Contact Us Work for Us Advertise campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_personalized_isEDU_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/washington/20090117_ADDRESSES.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day, position: Inv1
Arts   The Carpetbagger. Channels & Shows Home Search Culture Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Get behind the scenes of Hollywood’s awards season, with close-up looks at Oscar-nominated films and exclusive red-carpet access to the hottest actors, actresses and directors. Recent Episodes in The Carpetbagger The Carpetbagger Culture 3:34 Dressing ‘Inherent Vice’ The Carpetbagger Culture 3:01 Patricia Arquette Grows Into ‘Boyhood’ The Carpetbagger Culture 2:09 Sundance in Slow-Mo   Clothes and Character 2:56 Dressing the Hawkings   Clothes and Character 3:36 In ‘Selma,’ Trench Coats Amid Protests The Carpetbagger Culture 2:26 David Oyelowo and ‘Selma’ The Carpetbagger Culture 4:45 Common and John Legend Perform ‘Glory’ The Carpetbagger Culture 3:02 Patti Smith’s Cinematic Lullaby The Carpetbagger Culture 2:22 Big Eyes, Big Lies Show more videos from The Carpetbagger Most Popular 1 World A Dyeing Life 2 U.S. Copwatch vs. Cops: After Freddie Gray 3 Opinion Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics 4 Opinion I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked 5 U.S. Best of Obama's Correspondents' Dinner Speech 6 U.S. Haunted by Columbine 7 Opinion Manufacturing China’s Future 8 Opinion Fashion vs. Art 9 World Spinning Ice Circle in Russia 10 Food Coconut Cluster Granola © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Business   Indian Executive Is Said to Have Siphoned Cash. Advertisement Advertisement By HEATHER TIMMONSJAN. 17, 2009 NEW DELHI — The founder of Satyam Computer Services, B. Ramalinga Raju, skimmed huge amounts of cash from the company, rather than padding its books as he has claimed, a person involved in the investigation of the company said on Saturday. Investigators looking into the fraud that has been called India’s Enron have found a “maze” of about 300 companies related to Mr. Raju that were used to “siphon” as much as $1 billion in cash from Satyam, said a senior official involved in the inquiry, who was granted anonymity to discuss developments in the case. The picture emerging from the investigation of Satyam, one of India’s largest technology outsourcing companies, is vastly different from the one painted by Mr. Raju in a confession that stunned corporate India earlier this month. Mr. Raju, who was Satyam’s chairman, said in a letter to the company’s board on Jan. 7 that about $1 billion of the company’s cash was “non-existent” and that he had falsified its profits for years to avoid losing control of the company. But the person involved in the investigation said that despite Mr. Raju’s claim that he had padded profits, he relied on hundreds of companies to divert money from Satyam. These companies are registered to Mr. Raju and members of his family. Figuring out what, exactly, happened at Satyam “is becoming increasingly complicated,” this person said, adding that investigators had not figured out where all the missing money wound up. Advertisement In his letter to the Satyam board, Mr. Raju said that a marginal gap in the balance sheet had grown over several years to “unmanageable proportions,” and he said he had dressed up the company’s profits to avoid a takeover. He said he had kept the illusion going with the help of his own shares and loans against his assets, and that neither he nor his brother, B. Rama Raju, “took even one rupee/dollar from the company.” Instead, the person involved in the investigation said, the entire $1 billion Mr. Raju said was faked might have actually been earned by the company but then skimmed from it. S. Bharat Kumar, the lawyer for the Raju brothers and the company’s chief financial officer, did not return phone and text messages seeking comment. The three Satyam executives Mr. Kumar represents are being held in a Hyderabad jail on counts of forgery, breach of trust and cheating. On Saturday a Hyderabad judge ordered the executives to be placed in police custody for four days to be questioned. India’s prime minister, Manmohan Singh, on Saturday called the events at Satyam “a blot on our corporate image.” Satyam’s decline “indicates how fraud and malfeasance in one company can inflict suffering on many and can also tarnish India’s image more broadly,” Mr. Singh said. The Satyam fraud has shocked India in part because Satyam, like most Indian technology companies, was seen as a corporate governance leader. Satyam’s auditor, Price Waterhouse, a unit of PricewaterhouseCoopers, signed off on the company’s financial statements for years and is now being investigated by India’s accounting board. A new, government-appointed Satyam board met Saturday to discuss how to alleviate a severe cash squeeze at the company and to fill the vacant management positions. Board members had said previously that Satyam might ask some of its 600 customers, which include General Electric, General Motors and Nestlé, to pay bills early. Satyam has some 17 billion rupees ($350 million) in payments pending from customers, the new board said last week. The board has not named a chief executive or chief financial officer and said it would meet weekly until one was found. A version of this article appears in print on , on page A14 of the New York edition with the headline: Inquiry in India Finds Scheme to Skim Cash. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Foreign   In Homes and on Streets, a War That Feels Deadlier. Advertisement Advertisement By SABRINA TAVERNISEJAN. 17, 2009 RAFAH, Gaza — The war here comes from the sky: fast, sharp and coldly lethal. And even when it is not crushing a building or collapsing a tunnel, its sound is always near in the nasal whine of drones and the earsplitting roar of fighter jets. Here in Gaza’s south on Saturday, the 22nd day of the war, conversations were punctuated by the whistles and occasional cracks of Israeli ordnance hitting its targets — a maze of underground tunnels that served as smuggling routes for Hamas. To many people in this bustling town on the Egyptian border, this short war has been the worst in living memory, one that they say is likely to further deepen age-old resentments. As their walls shook and windows rattled, they said it seemed that Israel was seizing the opportunity to destroy as much as possible before a unilateral cease-fire was to take effect early Sunday. In past conflicts, the attacks came in spurts, people here said, with missiles shot from helicopters that could take out a living room, but not an entire building. Now, said Muhammad Hamed, 24, things feel different. He lost some of his hearing for a short while, after a house on his street was destroyed. “You see a plane, but you don’t know where it will hit,” he said, standing near an empty playground where several houses, and the tunnels that probably lay underneath them, had been crushed. The weapons, he said, were so big that people just disappeared. Advertisement “Even if you are a giant, all that could remain is your finger.” It left a feeling, he said, of weakness and insignificance. Of being outside his body as if he were watching events from somewhere else. It also presented more tangible obstacles: engaged to be married, he now has to wait until after the war to tie the knot. “There are far too many martyrs right now to get married,” he said, in a black T-shirt with the number 78 on the front. A number of government institutions were hit, including the police and fire station. Israel argues that Hamas is a terrorist organization and therefore many of its agencies are legitimate targets. To be sure, some members of the police department are part of the group’s security apparatus, but many officers, whose duties include writing traffic tickets or registering cars, have no ideological loyalty to Hamas. So when the main police station was hit, Jabbar Shalah, 40, thought it was all-out war. He had been sunning himself outside his house in a plastic chair and felt an explosion thump in his chest. “I thought — it’s over,” he said, sitting on a mat at home with his family around a hot plate that has served as the only cooking device since their gas supply was cut off. “They’re going after all of us.” The building was demolished, and the police chief, Tawfiq Jabbar, had been obliterated, he said. Chief Jabbar’s family buried only his legs. Samira Shalah, who was making coffee on the hot plate, chimed in: “They say it’s Hamas’s fault. They don’t want to take responsibility for anyone else they kill.” Advertisement Muhammad Muhaisin, 35, a member of the rival Fatah party who was not particularly enthusiastic about Hamas, said people were getting the sense that the real target was Palestinian civil society itself. “We see this war as a war on the Palestinian state, not against a party,” he said. “They are targeting the institutions of the Palestinian state.” The municipal building and another public building that handled marriages and electricity payments were also hit. Those buildings, he said, were built by Fatah. “They say they want to replace Hamas with Fatah, but really they just don’t want anybody in charge,” he said in his living room, where the windows had no glass and a clock hung sideways, stopped at 12:27, the time a bomb hit the mosque across the street. The war, he said, will not diminish Palestinians’ national aspirations. “The idea of Palestine is in people’s minds, not in buildings,” he said. “Every time they press us it gets stronger.” Rafah, in many ways, has been spared. Tanks do not roll in its streets, and because its power comes from Egypt, it has had electricity for most of the war. In all, according to Muhammad al-Hams, director of the main hospital, Al Najar, 46 people have been killed in the fighting here, a fraction of the toll in Gaza City. And though the war has caused serious destruction, leveling buildings and certain neighborhoods along the border, there are surprising pockets of normality. In the center of town, donkey carts were stuck in a traffic jam. On the outskirts, a field of cultivated flowers was untouched. People had even grown accustomed to the sounds of the planes and bombs, and went about their lives resigned to it. Abdullah Shamali, a 60-year-old in a sheik’s headdress and suit coat, did not look up from his hummus, when a crack sounded at lunchtime. “We’re used to it,” he said, shrugging. War has been here for what seems like forever. Mr. Hamed, the groom-to-be, lives in a house pockmarked by shrapnel from a previous war. He was standing outside with a group of friends, watching planes shoot flares into the blue sky, and thinking about his wedding. Advertisement His fiancée’s name is Palestine. Nadim Audi contributed reporting. A version of this article appears in print on , on page A14 of the New York edition with the headline: In Homes and on Streets, A War That Feels Deadlier. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Movies   Movies. Movies Search slide shows All Multimedia » next 1 of 13 A Cinematic Evolution Sign In to E-Mail or Save This President-elect Barack Obama on election night. Manohla Dargis and A. O. Scott write: Barack Obama's victory in November demonstrated, to the surprise of many Americans and much of the world, that we were ready to see a black man as president. Photo: Damon Winter/The New York Times related Article: How the Movies Made a President Home Movies Log In Register Now Copyright   The New York Times Company Privacy Policy Contact Us Help Work for Us Site Map campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_personalized_isEDU_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/slideshow/yr/mo/day/movies/0118-DARG_index.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/slideshow/yr/mo/day/movies, position: Inv1
Obituary   Peter E. Fleming Jr., Defense Lawyer Who Relished the Limelight, Dies at 79. Peter E. Fleming Jr., a prominent criminal-defense lawyer whose client list over more than three decades included high-ranking politicians, flamboyant celebrities and a cast of characters from outbreaks of corporate crime, died on Wednesday in Manhattan. He was 79 and lived in Greenwich, Conn. The cause was complications of lung surgery, his son Peter said. Among Mr. Fleming's clients were John N. Mitchell, the former United States attorney general; Don King, the boisterous boxing promoter; John J. Rigas, the founder of what was once the nation's sixth-largest cable company; and companies operated by Marc Rich, the commodities trader, who received a controversial pardon from President Bill Clinton. High-profile names also brought Mr. Fleming out of the courts into public service. In 1991, the United States Senate named him as a special counsel to investigate the disclosure of sexual-harassment allegations made by Anita F. Hill against Clarence Thomas during proceedings leading up to Judge Thomas's confirmation as a Supreme Court justice. The investigation raised anew the volatile question of whether reporters have a constitutional right to conceal confidential sources. The Senate eventually chose not to seek contempt citations against the reporters who had refused to cooperate. Mr. Fleming also received national attention in 1974 when he successfully defended Mr. Mitchell, President Nixon's attorney general. Mr. Mitchell, along with Nixon's commerce secretary, Maurice H. Stans, was accused of obstruction of justice and perjury in connection with an investigation of Robert L. Vesco, the fugitive financier. Both Mr. Mitchell and Mr. Stans were acquitted. (Mr. Mitchell went to prison in a different case for his role in the Watergate scandals, serving 19 months for conspiracy, obstruction of justice and lying under oath.) ''We pitched a no-hitter,'' Mr. Fleming told The New York Times in a 2002 interview in which he recalled the thrill of being barraged by reporters as he descended the steps of the federal courthouse in Manhattan 28 years earlier after the acquittal. He did not mind the limelight. A rangy 6-foot-6, typically attired in custom-made suits and French-cuffed shirts, Mr. Fleming could capture a courtroom with a booming voice, an occasional tear or a quip. A People magazine profile of him during the Mitchell trial described how, ''while interrogating former Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman G. Bradford Cook, a pivotal prosecution witness, Fleming was asked by Judge Lee Gagliardi how much longer he planned to continue. 'Till he cracks,' snapped Fleming.'' In 2004, Mr. Fleming represented Mr. Rigas, the chief executive of the cable company Adelphia Communications. Mr. Rigas had started Adelphia in 1952 with a $300 purchase of a single franchise in the small Pennsylvania town of Coudersport. Mr. Rigas and his son Timothy were eventually convicted of conspiracy, bank fraud and securities fraud involving $2.3 billion. But Mr. Fleming succeeded in his defense of Mr. King, the boxing promoter. In 1998, Mr. King was acquitted of charges of defrauding Lloyd's of London, the insurer, by submitting fake expenses and a fake contract from a canceled title fight. ''The guy saved my life,'' Mr. King said of Mr. Fleming on Wednesday. ''If everything went against me, I was facing 63 years in prison. I think that Clarence Darrow will be standing there welcoming Peter to lawyer's heaven.'' Peter Emmet Fleming Jr. was born in Atlantic Highlands, N.J., on Aug. 18, 1929, one of six children of Peter and Anna Sullivan Fleming. Besides his son Peter, he is survived by three other sons, William, James and David; a daughter, Jane Fleming; a sister, Joan Fleming Sexton; and 11 grandchildren. Mr. Fleming's wife of 34 years, the former Jane Breed, died in 1990. Mr. Fleming graduated from Princeton in 1951. After serving in the Navy during the Korean War, he graduated from Yale Law School in 1958. For three years, he was an associate at Davis Polk & Wardwell. In 1961, Robert M. Morgenthau, then the United States attorney for the Southern District of New York, hired Mr. Fleming as one of 15 new assistant attorneys. In an interview on Wednesday, Mr. Morgenthau, who has been Manhattan district attorney for 34 years, called Mr. Fleming ''one of the best lawyers around,'' and recalled his independent streak: ''Bobby Kennedy comes up, goes around the room asking, 'Why did you want to be an assistant U.S. attorney?' Others say, 'To do public service.' Peter says, 'I did it for the money, general.' Peter's making a third of what he was making in private practice, but he's no sycophant.'' Mr. Fleming won 49 out of 50 cases in his nine years as a prosecutor. In 1970, he joined the firm of Curtis, Mallet-Prevost, Colt & Mosle, where he remained for the rest of his career. ''I never had a client I thought was guilty,'' Mr. Fleming said in 2002. ''Everyone may deserve a defense, but they don't deserve my defense.'' PHOTO: Peter E. Fleming Jr. in 2005. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers. New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse.
Society   Leslie Parks and Alan Harding. Advertisement Advertisement State of the Unions By ERIC V. COPAGE JAN. 17, 2009 “WHEN I roll back the tape of our marriage, I think I was ill-prepared,” said Alan Harding, whose wife, Leslie Parks, and he are separated pending their divorce. “I had to wear so many hats. I had to be the daddy. I had to bring home money. I had to be the husband and I had to be the best friend. I wasn’t ready for that.” Mr. Harding and Ms. Parks, a daughter of the late photographer, filmmaker and musician Gordon Parks, were married in August 1998. By the time they took their vows, they had known each other for four or five years, first as employer and employee, when Mr. Harding, then the chef de cuisine at Nosmo King in Manhattan, hired Ms. Parks as a line chef. Over time they became friends as they commiserated with each other about their respective love lives. Finally they became a couple. “I was attracted to her humor and soulful spiritual sense of who she was,” said Mr. Harding, 46, who, along with his business partner, Jim Mamary, has sprinkled Brooklyn with popular restaurants in recent years. Ms. Parks, 41, said she admired him for his “passion for life” and his hunger for “thinking outside the box.” Advertisement Neither felt pressed to marry. “We had a kid,” Mr. Harding said, referring to their elder son, Campbell, who was 9 months old when they married. “We had a family and we were going to be together forever. Why not do what everybody does?” In the hospital room on Dec. 22, 1997, shortly after Campbell was born, Ms. Parks received a gift from her husband, but not a proposal, she said. “He gave me his grandmother’s engagement ring,” she said. Six months later, she remembered saying to Mr. Harding, “We have to start planning the wedding.” Their union seemed to go smoothly for years before his sense of responsibility began to change, he said. They now had to pay a mortgage and support a growing family — their second son, Satchel, was born in March 2000. When the World Trade towers were destroyed, the New York economy tanked, hurting Mr. Harding’s restaurant businesses and exacerbating his sense of burden, he said, at being the family’s sole provider. For Mr. Harding, the situation and his marriage, gradually became “like having my shoulders creep up to my ears.” “When we were living together, when I would write out the bills, I never really gave a thought to how much money was going into the mail,” he said. As a husband, he said, “I’d write out bills, total them up and go to the bank to make sure the amount I totaled up was in the bank.” He threw himself into his work, as much for self-affirmation as to make sure the family’s expenses were covered. “In marriage there’s no measure for how well you’re doing,” he said. “But if you open a restaurant and suddenly have lines around the block, you get a real good sense of accomplishment.” While Mr. Harding’s success as an entrepreneur grew, Ms. Parks became increasingly frustrated with her life. She said for a couple of years during the winter months she had attempted to exercise her creativity by running an informal restaurant in their home. But she was essentially a stay-at-home mother. Advertisement “I had no career anymore,” she said. “I had lost myself. I thought, ‘I’m a mother, but the kids are off at school.’ I was upset and angry. I had no role.” Her feelings came to a head one summer afternoon a few years ago. He says 2005, she says 2006. “One thing led to another, and she made the announcement that she can’t do this anymore,” he recalled about the argument that became a turning point in their relationship. “I was happy to have my head in the sand. I didn’t have to realize, ‘God, we haven’t gone out to dinner together in three months.’ ” Shortly after that argument, he moved to the parlor floor of the brownstone in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, they bought in 2001. In 2007, they sold the house and divided the proceeds. They now live a few blocks apart in the Red Hook section of Brooklyn, but their proximity is a coincidence. Ms. Parks was the first to buy a house there. Mr. Harding moved in later when he found a good deal on a distressed house that was in foreclosure. “When he moved to the neighborhood I said, ‘What are you doing that for?’ ” Ms. Parks said. “But it works for us. In case of an emergency the children know where to go and how to get there.” Their sons split their time living with each parent. Asked what she has learned about marriage, Ms. Parks said, “I think when people get married, they think something magical is going to happen. It doesn’t. You have to make it happen.” Mr. Harding said, “Life is a balancing act. You have to balance, otherwise something’s going to fall apart.” A version of this article appears in print on , on page ST13 of the New York edition with the headline: Leslie Parks and Alan Harding. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe See More » Go to Home Page »
Sports   Moore Sets Uconn Marks. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content Skip to navigation View mobile version The New York Times College Basketball|Moore Sets Uconn Marks Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Supported by College Basketball | Sports Briefing | Womens Basketball Moore Sets Uconn Marks By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSJAN. 18, 2009 Continue reading the main story Share This Page Continue reading the main story Maya Moore scored a career-high 40 points to reach 1,000 faster than any player in Connecticut history, leading the top-ranked Huskies in a 107-53 rout over Syracuse on Saturday in Hartford. A version of this brief appears in print on , on page SP10 of the National edition with the headline: Moore Sets Uconn Marks. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Continue reading the main story What's Next Loading... Go to Home Page » Site Index The New York Times Site Index Navigation News World U.S. Politics N.Y. Business Tech Science Health Sports Education Obituaries Today's Paper Corrections Opinion Today's Opinion Op-Ed Columnists Editorials Contributing Writers Op-Ed Contributors Opinionator Letters Sunday Review Taking Note Room for Debate Public Editor Video: Opinion Arts Today's Arts Art & Design ArtsBeat Books Dance Movies Music N.Y.C. Events Guide Television Theater Video: Arts Living Automobiles Crossword Food Education Fashion & Style Health Jobs Magazine N.Y.C. Events Guide Real Estate T Magazine Travel Weddings & Celebrations Listings & More Classifieds Tools & Services Times Topics Public Editor N.Y.C. Events Guide Blogs Multimedia Photography Video NYT Store Times Journeys Subscribe Manage My Account Subscribe Subscribe Times Insider Home Delivery Digital Subscriptions NYT Opinion Crossword Email Newsletters Alerts Gift Subscriptions Corporate Subscriptions Education Rate Mobile Applications Replica Edition International New York Times Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Travel   A Walk on New Zealand's Wet Side. Subscribe Now Subscribe campaign: inyt2015_bar1_digi_usd_4L9UF -- 277474, creative: inyt2015_bar1_digi_buttononly_usd_4L9UF -- 406560, page: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/travel/0118-zealand.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/travel, position: Bar1 Log In Register Now Help More Slide Shows Travel Search Slide Shows All Multimedia » Close A Walk on New Zealand's Wet Side « Previous 1 of 9 Next » Sign In to E-Mail Jaw-dropping beauty defines the Milford Track in New Zealand's Fiordland National Park. Rambling through lush rain forests and alpine vistas on this 33.5-mile hike will make you feel like you've stepped into a picture postcard. Credit: James Frankham for The New York Times Related Article: A Walk Through New Zealand’s Watery Wild Travel Guide: New Zealand Home Travel © 2011 The New York Times Company Privacy Policy Your Ad Choices Contact Us Help Work for Us Site Map campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_personalized_isEDU_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/travel/0118-zealand.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/travel, position: Inv1
U.S.   U.S.. U.S. Search slide shows All Multimedia » next 1 of 9 From Out of the Window Sign In to E-Mail or Save This People from Philadelphia to Baltimore gathered to wave, cheer and merely catch a glimpse of President-elect Barack Obama's vintage train car on its way to Washington. Those who came to witness the moment, even to catch only a peek of the train, stood in single-digit temperatures, with the wind chill below zero. Times photographer Damon Winter captured scenes from the train window of the whistle-stop tour. Photo: Damon Winter/The New York Times related Article: Obama Arrives in Washington After Train Trip Home U.S. Log In Register Now Copyright   The New York Times Company Privacy Policy Contact Us Help Work for Us Site Map campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_personalized_isEDU_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/slideshow/yr/mo/day/us/0118-WINDOW_index.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/slideshow/yr/mo/day/us, position: Inv1
Business   Talk to the Newsroom: Interactive News Collaborative. Advertisement Advertisement JAN. 17, 2009 Members of The New York Times's interactive news collaborative, recently featured in New York Magazine, are answering questions from readers Jan. 19-23, 2009. Questions may be e-mailed to askthetimes@nytimes.com. Gabriel Dance, senior multimedia producer for The New York Times, spends his days developing interactive projects across all newspaper desks and exploring all mediums. He has captured, edited and produced photographs, audio and video that has appeared on nytimes.com as well as developed and programmed several major projects, including Faces of the Dead (an interactive graphic displaying the photos of those who have died in Iraq), The Election Day Word Train, and "I Hope So Too." Andrew DeVigal manages the multimedia department, a group of 10 journalists who report, produce and create multimedia and interactive stories for the Web site. He was hired in 2006, in part, to keep NYTimes.com at the forefront of innovation in using multimedia presentations to better help readers understand the news as well as help in the integration of the online and print operations. Recent major projects produced by the multimedia team include One in 8 Million, The Year in Pictures, Choosing A President and Pogue-o-matic. Steve Duenes, graphics director, previously answered questions in Talk to the Newsroom in February 2008. He manages the graphics department, a group of 30 journalists who report and create the interactive graphics on the Web site as well as the charts, maps and diagrams for the newspaper. Recent efforts by the graphics team include a look at the year in the markets, the animated diagram covering last week's plane crash in the Hudson River and the interactive visualization describing historical inaugural addresses. Matthew Ericson, deputy graphics director, helps oversee a department of journalists, artists and programmers who produce the interactive information graphics for NYTimes.com, as well as all the graphics for the print newspaper. He joined The Times in March 2003 as the national graphics editor and has produced graphics on a wide variety of topics, including the 2004 and 2008 Elections, the War in Iraq, and the effects of Hurricane Katrina. Before coming to The Times, he was a graphic artist and Web site editor at The Philadelphia Inquirer. Advertisement Aron Pilhofer, editor of Interactive News Technologies at The New York Times, oversees a news-focused team of journalist/developers who build dynamic, data-driven applications to enhance The Times's reporting online. He joined The Times in 2005 as a projects editor on the paper's newly expanded computer-assisted reporting team, where he specialized in stories related to money, politics and influence for the politics desk and Washington bureau. Other Times staff members have answered questions in this column, including Executive Editor Bill Keller, Managing Editor Jill Abramson, Managing Editor John Geddes, Assistant Managing Editor Glenn Kramon, Associate Managing Editor Charles Strum, Obituaries Editor Bill McDonald, Metropolitan Editor Joe Sexton, Living Editor Trish Hall, Investigations Editor Matthew Purdy, National Editor Suzanne Daley, Sports Editor Tom Jolly and Culture Editor Sam Sifton. Their responses and those of other Times staff members are available on the Talk to the Newsroom page. These discussions will continue in coming weeks with other Times editors and reporters. The Elements of Good Interactive Design Q. First of all — big compliments for what you do. I love The New York Times a lot for the interactive design and graphics, etc. In the World Wide Web what are some of the principles of good interactive design and what drives you crazy about other sites ? Do you go elsewhere to know what not to do? A. Good interactive design means a lot of different things. Even on the Times site, there are many different examples of interactive design. For instance, Khoi Vinh, the design director for NYTimes.com leads a group that is responsible for the overall site design. I think they're successful for a number of reasons, but certainly one of their achievements is to make it very clear to readers what to expect when interacting with the site. It's a principle we try to follow when it comes to interactive graphics. Readers don't want to spend a lot of time figuring out how something works. Even when there's a lot of data, the interface should be designed so that the content is easily accessible. Often that means doing some fairly simple things, like limiting the number of menu options or making the descriptive language very clear. Recently, I think we did pretty well with the graphics displaying our election results. There's a lot of data, and readers can maneuver through it with ease. A lot of that work was done by my colleagues Matthew Bloch, Shan Carter and Matt Ericson. A. Like Steve said, we try to get the interface out of the way and let the content come to the forefront. I've seen any number of interactives where it's obvious that more time was spent designing a "clever" interface than worrying about the underlying content, and it is invariably an unsatisfactory experience in the end. Advertisement One area that's often under-appreciated — especially in these days of ever more powerful computers and bigger broadband connections — is how responsive an interactive is. For those election maps, many, many hours were spent optimizing the mapping code so that we could load results for all 3,141 counties and let readers zoom from the national view into a state in one fast, fluid action. And the developers on Aron Pilhofer's team spent many hours tweaking the data feed, so that the results for all 50 states were updated every two minutes. There were many Web sites that all had similar maps on election night, but I'd like to think that one of the reasons ours stood apart was the speed and ease that readers could interact with it. A. The guiding principle when developing an interactive is usability. What that means is allowing users to easily navigate an interactive and getting out of the way of the content. As an interactive developer, I feel a sense of responsibility to those who gathered and edited the content, and that responsibility dictates that I don't obfuscate or try to upstage it. The simple reality is that if a user is confused by an interactive, or if they feel it takes too much time to get to the content, they are going to leave. And if people aren't looking at the content, it doesn't really matter how "cool" the interface is. That said, if there are subtle and interesting ways to present the content, that can also have a positive impact on the project and encourage users to spend more time with the content. In the Faces of the Dead interactive, the interface was developed to give the feeling of one soldier among many, and to encourage users to browse through the content easily. Another recently launched project developed by fellow multimedia producer Tom Jackson, One in 8 Million, is an excellent example of using the interface to set the tone for the piece, and to add some "wow" factor, all while putting the content first. A. The one thing I'd add is the importance of consistency. By striving to make interactive design components throughout the site consistent, we make these elements recede back to the interaction, or browser, level where it often belongs. Thus, the content and storytelling will naturally come to the foreground. We often collaborate with Khoi Vinh's design desk to learn what we can from these Design Pattern Libraries so that it works for us rather than against us. Advertisement And I'd echo Gabe's point of engaging our readers/users at another level. I find our Year in Pictures project, designed and developed by Tom Jackson, and as well as our very recent Anticipation On a City Block, designed and developed by Zach Wise, are deep in storytelling as well as engaging in interaction. And these packages, I believe, are enjoyable to use and navigate. Advice for the Aspiring Journalist/Programmer Q. I'm a student journalist trying to break into the journalist-programmer field. I'm curious — what skills do you need to have to be successful in this regard? And what's the best way to learn them? A. This is a tough question to answer with any specificity because the whole idea of the journalist/programmer is still relatively new, and this community has yet to coalesce into anything like a defined "field." But for precisely that reason, this is the ideal time to cultivate your inner nerd. As we all know, the future of journalism is online. So those who have a background in journalism and solid technical skills will be in ever greater demand. Advertisement Exactly what those technical skills are is more about your interests and aptitude than anything else. There are many paths, and many destinations. The Times's intimidatingly talented graphics, computer-assisted reporting and multimedia departments, for example, include journalists who are experts in Flash, Geographical Information Systems, video and audio production, databases, data analysis, statistics and even 3D animation. My own extraordinarily talented team is a bit more specialized around Web programming — CSS/javascript on the front end, and Ruby/Ruby on Rails with a sprinkle of Django/Python on the back end. That's a technobabbley way of saying there are many different ways in which journalism and technology converge in today's newsroom. As for learning these skills, there's some disagreement among those on my team with formal computer science backgrounds on whether taking computer science classes is worthwhile. Some say college courses are often too theoretical, but others believe that even the theory provides a solid foundation for problem solving. I wouldn't know because, like several other members of my team, I'm entirely self-taught. So I'm living proof that it's possible to learn enough to write a few production Web applications, manage a development team and not crash NYTimes.com (yet). There are also an increasing number of professional associations offering training. For example: — The Society of News Design offers a number of courses on new media (including Flash) and other technologies. Seminars are held around the country. — The National Institute on Computer-Assisted Reporting holds a number of training sessions as well, most of them focused on databases and data analysis. At NICAR's annual conference, there are hands-on courses on such topics as basic programming, Web frameworks and GIS. There also will be a weeklong training seminar in May that will be both an introduction to programming Python and to the Django Web framework, which so many news organizations use. — The Online News Association also offers numerous workshops at its national conference and at locations around the country, many offered as Webinars. So, there's lots out there, and more every day. A. This certainly seems to be one of the biggest questions in the field right now, Andrew. And to be quite honest, I don't feel there is just one way to go about it. My path was certainly not traditional: I earned a computer science degree in undergraduate, but felt that computer programming was more of a hobby than a passion. I started writing for the newspaper and really fell for journalism, so I decided to pick up a second major in technical journalism. When I was applying to graduate schools to hone my writing skills, I honestly had never even heard the term "multimedia journalism." I stumbled upon the multimedia program at the University of North Carolina and was introduced to Flash (the software we use to produce most of our interactives), and being that I already had the programming down, I took courses in audio, photography and video, as well as traditional journalism classes like First Amendment law. When I was wrapping up my graduate degree I started applying relentlessly to news organizations with examples of the projects I had launched in school. School provides a great opportunity to really stretch and try to innovate. I know that at The Daily Tar Heel (GO HEELS!), as well as at other universities throughout the country, students just like yourself are pushing the boundaries and spurring new ideas. Ideas that are being picked up by such organizations as The New York Times. More and more, the computer skills that I see in my co-workers are skills that they developed either on their own, or in concert with other skill sets. What I see far too often in journalism schools, and I feel is a mistake, is the idea that somebody can just learn computer programming in a semester or two. Developing interactives and projects on the Internet requires a love of computers and a deep interest in technology. Most of the time, people develop these skills on their own, or pursue a technology-related career. If you really feel that you want to be a journalist-programmer, I encourage you to take some courses in the computer science department. It will give you the foundation that you just can't get by taking a couple of Flash courses. It's a very interesting time in journalism, and I feel quite fortunate that I've slipped in just in time, especially at such a place as The New York Times. It's quite uncommon for this to be somebody's first job, but that's the kind of skills that are needed right now, and most of those skills are held by people who have grown up with the Internet. Advertisement A. Aron and Gabriel are right on the money. Both of them touched on this, but the journalist portion of the journalist/programmer combination shouldn't be neglected. We've had a number of strong technological performers pass through our department, and some of them had difficulty knowing which information to pursue or how to pursue it efficiently. Some had interesting ideas, but they weren't able to fully articulate what they wanted to do, and as a consequence, they were frustrated when we had to make decisions about which graphics to go after. I'm not saying that a master's degree in journalism is the thing to do. It might be. But the important thing is to find an environment where you'll be pushed and where you can grow. If you're surrounded by a few people with good experience and if your internship or job requires you to behave like a journalist, that's good. You want to be in a position where you're forced to be resourceful about information, where you have to find it and think about it and make decisions about how to deal with it. Such an environment will help you sharpen journalistic skills, and it might even push you toward imaginative technological solutions to journalistic problems. The Fleeting Nature of the Web Q. I really enjoyed reading all about you and how you approach your work, as I did the related materials last year. I love that you've assimilated ideas and techniques from people like Nigel Holmes, who was a very big influence on my early career as a graphic designer. As people who design and manage content in digital form, do you ever freak out about how all your work may end up? As a Web site designer since 1995, many of my projects have survived for years, but many others have dropped away as companies have gone out of business or have changed in some way. It is too bad that some work I did for a media company 10 years ago, and won some awards for, is completely gone. Or, some of the early Web sites for still-extant clients had more charm than the newer ones, but they're gone, too. Even web.archive.org can't contain all the old work, as it won't archive some formats and applications. Of course I keep my old work on disks, but storage formats change. I feel we'd all want more assurance that things will endure — at least the good work. A. Coming from a newspaper background — where today's newspaper is tomorrow's fishwrap — the Web is actually, in some ways, a step up. To be sure, it's harder to save a copy of an interactive graphic that you know will work 50 years from now than it is to stick a printed newspaper in a drawer. But realistically, for most of our readers, most graphics in the printed paper had a lifespan of just a day (if that). So, the Web has given us new opportunities to produce interactive graphics that are useful to readers on an ongoing basis. During the Olympics, our Map of Olympic Medals and History of World Records graphic were updated every time a medal was awarded or a record was broken. Throughout the primaries and general election, our election guide was updated with where the candidates were traveling, recent polls and which states were slipping in or out of play. And the The Guantánamo Docket is an on-going interactive database with details on the 779 people who have been detained at the United States military prison in Guantánamo Bay, Cuba. Also, now that more and more of our traffic comes via search engines, there's been a realization that there's value in making sure that our previous work remains online at that same URL. Two months after the presidential election, our package of election results continues to get thousands of page views each day. Advertisement Embracing Open-Source Applications Q. I love what you're doing with the API and Labs, and your embrace of open data. Right now we're better able to generate massive data streams than we are to digest them. As tools to present that scale of information plainly to a wide audience become more powerful, this approach will become an important part of the journalistic mission, and you guys are leading the way. Are you planning to release any of the visualization tools you're building as open-source projects? Even if they are primarily one-offs, I'd love to see where the larger community can take them. In particular, your innovative Voronoi cell treemap showing U.S. consumer spending and inflation is superb. While the NYTimes Labs/Manyeyes treemap is powerful, I found the organic layout you created more compelling, and would like to see it grow into a broadly useful tool. (I apologize if you are already open-sourcing some of this — if so, would you please post a pointer?) I would also enjoy hearing what tools — both commercial and open-source — you use to prepare your infographics; and especially any newer tools you'd like to recommend. A. I can't speak to infographics, but you're right to note that The New York Times in general is doing more to embrace open data and to open-source software we develop. We have open sourced two projects already: DBSlayer and XSL Cache. We are going to open source a project that started in my group (our Document Viewer, which you can see here) sometime in the spring, if all goes well. At the end of February, we're holding our first Times Open, where we are inviting technologists to meet times developers and talk about our APIs, or application programming interfaces, and development tools. In short, if it seems to you like The Times is acting more and more like the technology company ... you'd be right. One Photo From Many Q. In the inaugural coverage there is a photo feature called A Closer Look at the Ceremony that allows the viewer to zoom into a large hi-res image. There is a notation at the bottom: "The image comprises a series of photographs taken over a short period of time." Could you comment on how this was done? A. When we add that notation it means that the photo was "stitched" together from several smaller photos to create a higher-resolution image. We do this in a couple of particular scenarios, including the closer look at the ceremony you referenced, as well as in the 360-degree panoramas we present on the site (see the ones from the inauguration). Most of the time when we do this, it's because it was not possible to get that particular photograph in one shot, and in those situations, we try to take a series photos as quickly as possible, making it easier to stitch the higher-resolution image. However, when readers see a photo, the assumption is that it was taken the way photos normally are, in one snap. When we run a stitched photo, we want to be clear with our readers that this isn't the case. Hence the notation. Breaking News vs. Creative Process Q. First, thanks for giving the readers a chance to talk with you and share some thoughts. On news, time of reaction is a precious value, and digital media has set a standard on how fast you can get them and also enrich it with multimedia resources — such as slideshows, multimedia and infographics. How do you deal with the rush of a breaking story not interfere with your creative processes? Advertisement Thanks and keep your excellent and inspiring work. A. When I first started working at The New York Times, I was often pulled into Steve's team on breaking stories in order to help produce graphics. Over time we noticed that we used several of the same presentation formats repeatedly (see Virginia Tech shootings, Corey Lidle plane crash, Hudson River plane crash), and because of this, we've been able to create templates into which we can plug in different types of media quickly. These templates have really helped smooth the process of creating intereactives at speed and on deadline, and I've noticed that it is now seldom for me to get a call from Steve to help develop an interactive when news breaks. Templates are an important technology that we leverage throughout the website, both on breaking news and on features. But the most important part of breaking news stories is getting them right, and the creative process is certainly secondary to accuracy. So while time is of the essence, and creativity is always encouraged, facilitating accurate interactives is always the foremost priority. A. In addition to the templates Gabe mentions, browser-based content management tools contribute to our ability to respond to news quickly. We’ve worked on developing tools to help manage the workflow from start to finish or in this case from editing to publishing. Our response to the news of Benazir Bhutto’s assassination can help illustrate my point. In addition to the eyewitness account audio slide show from the photographer John Moore, we also produced an interactive timeline. The audio slide show was produced in large part because of the picture editor Patrick Witty’s keen sensibility to the news, quick thinking and ability to record the photographer in Pakistan. And then our workflow of integrating a third-party software called Soundslides with our publishing system allows us to focus on the journalism and not on the back-end. A similar process can be said about the interactive timeline. A back-end system that Aron developed initially for the presidential candidate timelines was used to explain Bhutto’s life and career. This back-end system needs to be easily accessible to editors and producers involved in the package and essentially divorced from the design of the feature or, in this case, the template. Journalistic Merit vs. Cool Factor Q. How do you make the call on whether a project is worthwhile and valuable or not? Some projects have obvious journalistic merit (Faces of the Dead) while others are just kinda cool (Election Day Word Train). I'm all for tackling projects that are just "cool" and expand the conception of traditional journalism, but you can't possibly follow up on every interesting idea that pops into mind, and I imagine may even get some pushback on the more idiosyncratic, conceptual ideas. Because of budget cuts and the generally accelerated pace of the news, journalists are becoming multitaskers who not only write but take photos and videos, blog, Twitter, etc. Are we moving to a world where they'll have to be Flash designers or computer programmers as well? A. You’re on to one of our daily challenges, Barrett. We are aware of the risks of taking on multimedia projects for the sake of multimedia. The “bells and whistles” was the term used back in the Web’s infancy. I consider projects based on several criteria. For example, I often ask: Can a unique presentation simplify a complex set of information? Can a package help a reader understand a story better? The “Faces of the Dead” package, as you referenced, is an excellent example of that kind of presentation. Can a multimedia presentation take you closer into the lives of the people or location that are the subject of the story? Anticipation on a City Block” is a recent package from our inauguration coverage that helps illustrate this point. Can the development we put into certain packages scale? In other words, can the work of one project potentially apply to future projects? A perfect example of scalability at work would be our Debate Analysis, which we first launched in September 2007 and which we updated for Obama’s Inaugural Speech. How can we deepen our engagement with readers? Interactive Web-based projects such as the recent Inauguration Pictures: Readers’ Album or reader comments on our articles, for that matter, offer an opportunity to involve a great number of people in sharing their view on the story. In many ways, The Election Day Word Train project offers another opportunity for readers to directly contribute to the feature. Advertisement A. In response to your first question, the guiding principle for most of what we do is basic news judgment. Our most recent Web projects have come in response to pretty big news stories like the plane splashdown in the Hudson, the economic crisis, the inauguration and Israel's invasion of Gaza. Obviously, the Times writes all kinds of stories, and sometimes articles are prominently displayed simply because they are compelling or because we can tell them in interesting ways. I think some of the "cool" stuff you mention fits into this category. A decent example of this on the Web is the sports piece we did that describes the Hahnenkamm ski course. It puts the reader "in the helmet" of the skier, and we thought it was moderately cool. But in many ways, it's still a traditional linear sequence that marches from beginning to end. There are other projects that probably come closer to what you're thinking of as an expansion of the concept of traditional journalism. Many of these projects are applications that invite readers to participate in meaningful ways. You asked how we decide which projects get done, and part of the answer is the same as above. These applications mostly come in response to significant news events. But there are other factors. Obviously, the interactivity or the "coolness" of the application should have real value. It should be the best way for us to achieve our goals, which range from helping readers understand a complicated concept to immersing readers in an interesting environment. Interactivity allows us to engage readers differently, but in some ways, it's similar to other tools at our disposal like color and typography and language. It shouldn't exist for its own sake, but it should be applied when it is the best tool. So, some interactive projects get done simply because interactivity is the best way to make a story come alive. Your second question is also a good one. Will journalists need a variety of skills? The answer is clearly yes. Does that mean that all journalists will be programmers? I don't think so. I'm not saying that there aren't people out there with both skills, but it's pretty rare. It's likelier that the work in newsrooms will become much more collaborative with reporter/writers and developers discussing projects, coordinating their reporting and collaborating on the execution. The Map of Olympic Medals Q. I was very impressed by the Olympic-by-Olympic medal counts you ran during the Summer Games; the bubbles representing the biggest hauls of each Olympiad were a microcosm of 20th-century political and economic power. Can you walk us through the birth of something like this? Did someone browse through the medal counts and see trends — the rise of the U.S. and, later, China, the unnatural power of East Germany, e.g. — or is this something that becomes clear after you've finished the graphics? A. I'm glad you enjoyed the "Map of Olympic Medals." We were looking for an interesting way to show trends in the medal count, and a quick glance at the data revealed how the counts were affected by the cold war boycotts in 1980 and 1984, the fall of the Soviet Union and the recent growth in China, so it seemed like a geographic representation might be the way to go. The next question was the form that the map should take. A constant challenge with data-driven maps is the presentation of data on top of the geographic areas that differ vastly in size. For example, Canada and The Netherlands won about the same number of medals in Beijing, but Canada occupies more than 200 times the land area of The Netherlands. There are a number of ways to attack this problem, each with pluses and minuses: If you were to do a traditional map where the countries were colored by the number of medals won, Canada and the Netherlands would have the same color, but Canada would be far more prominent on the map simply because of its size. A proportional symbols map -- what we informally call a "bubble" map -- places a circle, scaled in proportion to the data, on top of each country. It can give you a better representation of the data, but in places like Europe, where the countries are so close together, you can end up with so many overlapping circles that you can't tell countries apart. For an example, check out our county-by-county presidential election bubble map. A contiguous cartogram rescales each country so that its area on the map is proportional to the data.. It can be extraordinarily effective in some cases, but other times it ends up distorting the countries so much that it's hard to recognize them. Mark Newman's site at the University of Michigan has a number of examples, on topics ranging from population to greenhouse gas emissions. The form we chose was similar to a Dorling cartogram, which removes all references to the shape of the country and replaces them all with a symbol like a circle. The goal was to try to keep the countries' relative positions loosely correct -- Canada north of the United States, and Mexico to the south -- and have the countries remain in roughly the same spots from year to year. Using this style of map can give you a better presentation of the countries with the highest medal count -- you don't have to worry about circles overlapping or shapes being distorted -- at the expense of the ones with a low count, which are too small to be labeled. But when looking at medal counts, you're usually more interested in who did well, so it seemed an acceptable trade-off. Advertisement The idea to use this style was loosely inspired by a terrific cartogram by John Tomanio in Fortune magazine in 2001 that showed the largest 500 companies in the world and the countries they were based in. (Sadly, I can't find it online anymore.) In the past, we'd done similar cartograms a number of times -- check out our 2003 California recall election graphic, done with squares -- but in every case, a graphics editor had gone in and positioned the countries by hand. The tricky thing in this case was generating the cartogram dynamically, since the data would change throughout the Olympics, and we wouldn't have the time to update it each time a medal was awarded. So Lee Byron, one of our summer interns and a terrific programmer, came up with an algorithm to position the countries automatically in Flash using a "force-directed graph using a particle system." Countries try to locate themselves near where they are geographically located as well as close to geographically neighboring countries. The algorithm required a number of rounds of tweaking -- for a while, New Zealand kept appearing west of Australia -- but by the end, it was doing a remarkably good job of generating a map on the fly. At which point, we hooked it up to a live data feed of the Olympic results and let it roll. The Speed With Which Pages Load Q. Thank you for taking The Times in to the 21st century. I think your work is great, and I also appreciate such opportunities to communicate directly with members of the staff. My one question is about the loading of the first page. I am aghast at how much handshaking with the likes of Doubleclick and Brightcove my browser has to do while loading Page One. It takes forever! Isn't there a way to reduce such handshaking either through consolidation or caching? Just wondering. Q. I'm a dialup holdout, paying about $9.95 a month for my connection. I particularly like NYTimes.com because it's fast loading, both regular articles and even most interactive features. I assume you put thought and effort into this. Would you talk a bit about what you do to keep my dialup experience positive, what compromises you make, etc. Q. Why does it take so long to load the first image of a video piece as I try to scroll down the paper's page? I used to be able to pull on the scroll handle and immediately I would see what was located below. Now I have to wait for spinning wheels while movies and advertisements materialize. I'd rather wait for the whole page to download at first and then to be able to navigate quickly. It is starting to be a real frustration. A. For these three questions, we turned to Ken Little, our director of Web technologies. Here's what he said: Three great questions about Web performance. As our site evolves, we're constantly working to optimize ever more complex pages. Luckily for us, page optimization is a problem many on the Internet have been grappling with for a while now, so there's a ton of great material available about how to deliver complex Web sites effectively. One of the best collections of performance tips I've seen is the "High Performance Web Sites" book put together by Steve Souders. We've added many of Steve's suggestions to our own list of must-dos for optimization, and a few are already live on the site. This has helped many of our readers with slower connections continue to have a pleasant experience as we add features. It's always a work in progress, though, and you've pointed out some of the biggest areas we're currently working on. We recently upgraded our video players across the site (including a nice redesign of our library player) to add a full screen feature and other enhancements. One of the side effects of this update was that more of the meat of the player is loaded "in-line," which can lead to a noticeable pause as the page renders. Ideally, the video player would be one of the last things to load, which would allow you to scroll farther down the page earlier, and we're working on getting that done. The number of requests it takes to load the homepage is a trickier one, but your suggestion is right on track. We've already put a robust caching policy in place where possible, and we're in the process of consolidating many of the components of the homepage, such as minimizing the number of CSS and JavaScript files we need to provide a rich experience. Keep an eye out for these optimizations in the not-too-distant future. Advertisement Harnessing the Wisdom of Our Readers Q. How could The Times use interactivity to harness the "crowd wisdom" of its uniquely educated and informed readership in a way that contributes to news gathering and analysis? A. There are two incredible resources I have available to me at The New York Times: the journalists and our readers. Lately we've been exploring different ways to play to the strengths of both groups. It's a delicate balance, we want to exercise our journalists' strengths (reporting, informing, storytelling) while at the same time allowing our readers to participate, and if possible, contribute. One example of trying to find this balance is "Is Tiger Woods the Best Athlete Ever?" It is an interactive that features two journalists presenting positions on either side of the issueand then allows our readers to choose whom they agree with. There was also a comment thread with this interactive that allowed users to weigh in with their own reasons, and even argue directly with our experts. While not perfect, I think it's a step in the right direction toward engaging both the journalists and the readers on their own terms. More recently, "I Hope So Too," is another example of trying to achieve the right balance. Multimedia producer Catrin Einhorn worked with several freelancers to canvass the United States doing audio reporting on what peoples' greatest hopes for the Obama administration were, which we then presented on the site. But instead of leaving it at that, we looked to engage our users and allow them to participate in the reporting by encouraging them to "hope so too," or agree with the positions presented in our reporting. We then allowed users to sort the voices in order of popularity — as determined by them — not us. Finally, we opened the interactive to comments, and more than 650 people posted their hopes for the administration. Then there are the interactives where we turn it over completely to the users. For the inauguration we took advantage of readers' eyes, so to speak, with The Readers' Album, a user-submitted collage of photos from the days leading up to, and just after, the recent presidential inauguration. Submissions were received from throughout the world. Another example of a purely user-driven interactive is The Election Day Word Train, where users could submit the one word that answered the question, "What one word describes your current state of mind?" In short, Vikram, we're working hard to find new and innovative ways to not only bring better reporting to our users, but also to allow our users to enhance and participate in the conversation. Working Across Departments Q. Your bios list your various skills and the specific things you do for the New York Times. Could you talk about the ways that all of you work together both across your various units and with the rest of the staff of the New York Times to produce unified pieces? How does the process work? How do you see it developing? Q. I am a big fan of what The New York Times has been up to online in recent years. It truly is beyond what other top news sites are deploying. I’m interested to know more about the workflow you have developed in this process, from assigning individuals to compile data to mocking up presentation to deployment. Where do the ideas come from? A. I believe the success of our collaboration stems from our common journalistic goals of accurate news coverage and compelling storytelling. I feel fortunate that I work in a place where, for the most part, folks check their egos at the door. There’s also a mutual respect for what each of our desks can bring to the table. Advertisement Don’t get me wrong, Judith and Fernando. It’s work. Collaboration takes coordination and communication. We do hold weekly meetings between our desks and others to help coordinate and plan for major projects. We also leverage internal Web-based tools to convey information and help manage projects. And for interactive projects that can be planned, we develop sketches and wireframes based on known or anticipated content type. Often we’ll end up with interactive mockups to outline how a user will work through the project and identify weak or confusing user interfaces. This process is often accelerated, as our project timeline in the newsroom is pretty tight. I consider it a luxury when we can plan three weeks before a project launches. But allow me to highlight that many of our multimedia packages wouldn't be possible without the collaboration beyond our collective desks. Case in point, the audio work for “Choosing a President” was largely the result of the collaboration with Times reporter Katharine Q. Seelye, multimedia producer Amy O'Leary and others from the video unit, which is led by Ann Derry. And the photojournalism that essentially drove the backbone of the visual narrative in “Choosing a President” was the result of an extremely talented photo staff, led by our assistant managing editor for photography, Michele McNally. A. How do we work together? It's utter chaos. I mean, er, it's an incredibly smooth process. Actually, any description of workflow needs to make it clear that we (those of us who are answering questions) are not the only ones producing multimedia at the Times. Far from it. There are plenty of very capable producers, photo editors, reporters, Web editors and backfield editors who are either creating excellent multimedia packages or who have terrific ideas for how we should approach this sort of content. So working together doesn't mean that a few small groups get together and figure out who will do what. It means each of our units has to engage with the rest of the newsroom and try to sort through the pile of ideas without letting the number of participants turn the whole thing into an awful "by committee" exercise. How is that done? It's not always easy, but a newspaper is a pretty collaborative environment, so many of the models developed in the newsroom are helpful when we think about how to work together on these projects. Mostly, it's a matter of listening, playing to strengths and keeping the goal of good journalism up front. In graphics, there are people with a variety of skills, but the department is mostly geared toward research and visualization. So, if a project comes along and the best ideas for it seem to fall in our court, we'll probably run with it. And when smart ideas clearly come between desks, we try to assemble the right group of people from both desks. One recent example of how we work across desks was the 2008 election, specifically the the election night maps and results, which needed to be hooked into a live data feed. We teamed designers and Flash developers from graphics with Ruby and JavaScript developers from interactive news technology to figure out what the pages should look like and how we could build a system that would run fast enough to update every couple of minutes. This oversimplifies things, but generally, for each page of results or interactive map, the interactive news technology team would pull the data into a database, parse it and generate either an HTML page or data file for a map. On the graphics side, we designed how the pages should look, and built Flash maps that were engineered to reach out for the data and funnel it to the appropriate geographic space. Go to Home Page »
Foreign   Brazil Church Roof Falls. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content Skip to navigation View mobile version The New York Times Americas|Brazil Church Roof Falls Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Supported by Americas Brazil Church Roof Falls By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSJAN. 18, 2009 Continue reading the main story Share This Page Continue reading the main story SÃO PAULO, Brazil (AP) — The roof of an evangelical church caved in shortly after a religious service on Sunday evening, killing seven people and injuring 57 others, the governor of São Paulo State, José Serra, said. About 60 people were inside the Reborn in Christ Church when the roof fell to the floor, a church spokeswoman, Marli Goncalves, said. The cause was not immediately clear. The church, which can hold 2,000 worshipers, was relatively empty at the time because the collapse happened between services, Ms. Goncalves said. As many as 1,000 people would likely have been inside just minutes earlier or later, she said. A version of this article appears in print on , on page A8 of the New York edition with the headline: Brazil Church Roof Falls. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Continue reading the main story What's Next Loading... Go to Home Page » Site Index The New York Times Site Index Navigation News World U.S. Politics N.Y. Business Tech Science Health Sports Education Obituaries Today's Paper Corrections Opinion Today's Opinion Op-Ed Columnists Editorials Contributing Writers Op-Ed Contributors Opinionator Letters Sunday Review Taking Note Room for Debate Public Editor Video: Opinion Arts Today's Arts Art & Design ArtsBeat Books Dance Movies Music N.Y.C. Events Guide Television Theater Video: Arts Living Automobiles Crossword Food Education Fashion & Style Health Jobs Magazine N.Y.C. Events Guide Real Estate T Magazine Travel Weddings & Celebrations Listings & More Classifieds Tools & Services Times Topics Public Editor N.Y.C. Events Guide Blogs Multimedia Photography Video NYT Store Times Journeys Subscribe Manage My Account Subscribe Subscribe Times Insider Home Delivery Digital Subscriptions NYT Opinion Crossword Email Newsletters Alerts Gift Subscriptions Corporate Subscriptions Education Rate Mobile Applications Replica Edition International New York Times Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Health   Health. Health Search slide shows All Multimedia » Warning Past Partners Public health officials are exploring ways to harness the online world for conducting safe-sex education and preventing the spread of sexually transmitted diseases by alerting people exposed to them. The following e-cards were created by Internet Sexuality Information Services, a nonprofit agency in Oakland, Calif., and are part of an online partner notification system called inSPOT. Begin Slide Show » Home Health Log In Register Now Copyright   The New York Times Company Privacy Policy Contact Us Help Work for Us Site Map campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_personalized_isEDU_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/slideshow/yr/mo/day/health/012009-STD_index.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/slideshow/yr/mo/day/health, position: Inv1
Movies   Critics' Picks: 'Malcolm X'. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Critics’ Picks Critics' Picks: 'Malcolm X' By Gabe Johnson | Jan. 19, 2009 | 2:55 A. O. Scott reviews Spike Lee's biopic about Malcolm X, whose repeated acts of self-transformation inspired the young Barack Obama. Show More PlaylistUp Next in Critics’ Picks Next →   Critics’ Picks3:39 Critics’ Picks: ‘The Rules of the Game’   Critics’ Picks4:55 Critics’ Picks: ‘The Thin Red Line’   Critics’ Picks3:43 Critics’ Picks: ‘Pulp Fiction’   Critics’ Picks3:14 Critics’ Picks: The Manchurian Candidate   Critics’ Picks3:49 Critics’ Picks: ‘Hannah and Her Sisters’   Critics’ Picks3:09 Critics’ Picks: ‘The Public Enemy’   Critics’ Picks2:53 Critics’ Picks: ‘The Wild Bunch’   Critics’ Picks3:20 Critics’ Picks: ‘Detour’   Critics’ Picks3:29 Critics’ Picks: ’25th Hour’   Critics’ Picks2:36 Critics’ Picks: ‘Au Hasard Balthazar’ © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Obituary   Don Galloway, 71, TV Actor Known for 'Ironside' Role. Don Galloway, who played well-groomed, straight-arrow characters in many television shows and movies -- most famously the series ''Ironside,'' in which he was the sidekick of the title character, a detective in a wheelchair played by Raymond Burr -- died on Jan. 8 in Reno, Nev. He was 71. His stepson, Robert Julian, announced the death to The Associated Press. Mr. Galloway's first job in television was in 1962 on the soap opera ''The Secret Storm,'' and 23 years later he returned to daily daytime acting on ''General Hospital.'' He was also cast in a handful of movies -- he played JoBeth Williams's husband in ''The Big Chill'' (1983) -- but made his name in prime time. A slim man with the conventional good looks of a local news anchor, he spent eight seasons on ''Ironside,'' from 1967 to 1975, as the earnest and loyal investigator Sgt. Ed Brown. He also appeared in three dozen other series, including ''Marcus Welby, M.D.,'' ''Love, American Style,'' ''Fantasy Island'' ''Hotel'' ''Charlie's Angels,'' ''Dallas,'' ''MacGyver'' and ''Murder, She Wrote,'' making him one of network television's most familiar guest stars. Mr. Galloway graduated from the University of Kentucky in his native state. After he stopped acting, he worked briefly for the sheriff's department in San Bernardino County, Calif., and later moved to New Hampshire, where he wrote a column expressing libertarian views for The Manchester Union Leader. Mr. Galloway's survivors include his wife, Linda Marie; two daughters from his first marriage, Tracy and Jennifer; two stepchildren, Sheila and Robert; three grandchildren; and a brother, Paul. PHOTO: Don Galloway in 1970.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NBC) Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers. New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse.
Science   Carrots: Perfect for Dark Winter Nights. Advertisement Advertisement Recipes for Health By MARTHA ROSE SHULMAN JAN. 19, 2009 Carrots are great to have around for healthy snacks, especially for children, and many of us buy them to make carrot juice. But how often do you plan dinner, or part of dinner, around this ingredient? It’s a question worth pondering now, in the depths of winter, when our choice of fresh vegetables, especially colorful ones, is limited. Among the nutrients that make carrots such a healthy option are so-called carotenoids, which are converted to vitamin A in the liver and are essential for the body’s maintenance of skin, teeth and the immune system. That carrots are good for the eyes is no wives’ tale, too: night blindness can result from a deficiency of vitamin A. Carrots are also a good source of vitamins C and K, dietary fiber and potassium. Want to work more carrots into your diet? Make up a batch of grated carrot salad every week. Standard fare in French cafes and charcuteries, this salad keeps well. If you have it handy, you’ll be eating carrots every day. Two Grated Carrot Salads The classic French salad is made with a salad oil rather than stronger-tasting olive oil. I’m giving you the choice here, as extra-virgin olive oil has health benefits that canola oil may not. Still, choose a mild tasting olive oil rather than a strong green one. French Grated Carrot Salad 1 tablespoon freshly squeezed lemon juice 1 tablespoon sherry vinegar or white wine vinegar Advertisement Salt and freshly ground pepper to taste 1 teaspoon Dijon mustard 6 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil or canola oil (or a mix of the two), or use 2 tablespoons plain low-fat yogurt or buttermilk and 4 tablespoons oil 1 pound carrots, peeled and grated 1/4 cup finely chopped flat-leaf parsley 1. Whisk together the lemon juice, vinegar, salt and pepper, mustard, and oil (or oil and yogurt and buttermilk). Toss with the carrots and parsley in a large bowl. Taste and adjust salt. Refrigerate if not eating right away (I recommend making this 30 minutes to an hour ahead, then tossing again). Curry-Laced Grated Carrot Salad This is a delicious variation on the French classic. Add to the carrots: 1/4 cup grated or finely chopped red onion (optional) 3 tablespoons capers, rinsed and coarsely chopped For the dressing: Use 2 tablespoons lemon juice and omit the vinegar Add 1 teaspoon curry powder and 1/2 teaspoon ground lightly toasted cumin seeds Substitute 2 to 3 tablespoons buttermilk for 2 to 3 tablespoons of the oil 1. Place the onions in a bowl and cover with cold water. Soak for 15 minutes, drain, rinse with cold water, and drain on paper towels. Add to the carrots along with the capers and parsley. Make the dressing as directed, adding to it the curry powder and ground cumin. Toss with the salad. See More » Go to Home Page »
Sports   Violence Heightens When Hated Rivals Meet. Advertisement Advertisement Sports of The Times By WILLIAM C. RHODEN JAN. 19, 2009 Pittsburgh Of all the thousands of words used last week to hype the Pittsburgh-Baltimore American Football Conference championship game, Ravens center Jason Brown offered the most insightful observations about N.F.L. players’ accommodation to violence, and the discipline required in these heated playoff games to keep emotions in check in a sport built on emotion. The routine violence of a regular-season football game is unparalleled in mainstream sports. You won’t find it in baseball, basketball or soccer, not even in hockey. The violence is heightened by the magnitude of a playoff game and intensified by the fact that Pittsburgh and Baltimore were meeting for the third time this season, this time for a chance to reach the Super Bowl. Baltimore and Pittsburgh have a historic disdain for each other. These hard-core, blue-collar teams have a bitter rivalry going back to when the Baltimore franchise was in Cleveland. Hatred is a powerful word, often unjustly used in sports. Not in football, not when the Steelers play the Ravens. “We have to prepare ourselves to actually dislike, to the point of almost hate, our opponents,” Brown said last week during an interview on Sirius NFL radio. “That’s the kind of preparation that is.” Games at this level are usually decided by mistakes, and sometimes the mistakes come when players allow their emotions to get the better of them, when players are goaded into personal-foul penalties. Advertisement “Things happen out there at a spilt of a second,” Brown said. “When things are happening out there, sometimes you might not think to turn the other cheek and walk away.” Last week, the Ravens won a hard-hitting game against the Tennessee Titans. Brown described an incident from that game that took place after he had flattened one of the Tennessee defensive players. Brown said that as he was getting up, the Titans defender, whom he would not name, shot an elbow toward his groin.  “Luckily my thighs are so big that he missed,” Brown said. He said that he confronted the player, who said, “Shut up, or I’ll spit in your face.” Football, for all of its controlled mayhem, has its own honor code. Spitting in an opponent’s face — as Bill Romanowski did to J. J. Stokes in 1997, and as Ravens cornerback Frank Walker was accused of doing to Steelers punter Mitch Berger this season — is an egregious violation of that code. “That’s one of the worst things that anybody could ever do to you,” Brown said. “You can punch me, you can do whatever you want, but don’t say you’re going to spit in my face.” In a split second of rage, Brown said he lost his composure and took the bait, daring the player to spit in his face. “ ‘I will take the 15 yards right now; please spit in my face, right now,’ ” he said he told him. “You know what? He backed down.” Asked what the official was doing while all this happened, Brown said that officials couldn’t police every down of a game. “They actually see some of the stuff that’s going on, yet they don’t want to throw flags after every single play,” Brown said. “They have to allow some parts of brutality to exist out there.” Advertisement No matter how brutal the Steelers-Ravens game may be, when it ends, players from both teams will meet at midfield and pray. This integration of religion and competitive sports is puzzling and sometimes contradictory: gesturing toward the heavens after good plays, never after bad ones. Postgame praying, after a bitterly contested game, is redemptive therapy for some, a means of washing away the acts of violence perpetrated in the previous three hours. During his college days at North Carolina and in his first season in the N.F.L., Brown didn’t join the prayer circle. Now, at 25 and in his fourth N.F.L. season, he says he won’t miss it.  “That gives me therapy right there,” Brown said. “You go out there on the 50-yard line and you pray out there every single game. That’s something that I’ve done every game this past year, and I’ve done it every game in the year 2007. “I make that a ritual after every single game, win or a loss. No matter how bad the loss, no matter how big the win, you go out there and pray together with those guys that you played against and the guys that you played with. That’s the greatest therapy you can ever have because you leave all of that out there on the football field. “That’s why no matter how bad of a loss, I can go home with a clear conscience, walk inside the house, kiss my wife, smile and pick up my son and not have any of those bad feelings still in my heart.” Eloquence in violence. E-mail: wcr@nytimes.com See More » Go to Home Page »
U.S.   U.S.. U.S. Search slide shows All Multimedia » next 1 of 9 Setting the Stage Sign In to E-Mail or Save This The inaugural stand in front of the Capitol was set on Monday as preparations continued for the inauguration of Barack Obama as the United States' 44th president. Photo: Alex Wong/Getty Images related Article: Obama Takes Oath, and Nation in Crisis Embraces the Moment Home U.S. Log In Register Now Copyright   The New York Times Company Privacy Policy Contact Us Help Work for Us Site Map campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_personalized_isEDU_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/slideshow/yr/mo/day/us/0119-INAUGPREP_index.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/slideshow/yr/mo/day/us, position: Inv1
Washington   In Washington, Uplifting Music and a Talk of Challenges. Advertisement Advertisement By NEIL A. LEWISJAN. 18, 2009 WASHINGTON — Framed by the Lincoln Memorial’s austere marble and facing a crowd of hundreds of thousands, President-elect Barack Obama on Sunday offered words of high inspiration about his forthcoming presidency that were interlaced with cautions about unrealistic expectations for quick remedies. Two days before he is to take the oath of office at the Capitol, Mr. Obama addressed a crowd that began at his feet below Mr. Lincoln’s statue and stretched far down the Mall to the World War II memorial. The sea of people — scarf-wrapped and stocking-capped, shivering under gray skies and 35-degree temperatures — had poured onto the National Mall on Sunday afternoon to kick off three days of festivities to celebrate the inauguration. “Only a handful of generations have been asked to confront challenges as serious as the ones we face right now,” Mr. Obama said to the crowd, which had assembled not only to hear him but also such musical stars as Bruce Springsteen, Beyoncé, Garth Brooks and U2. “Our nation is at war, our economy is in crisis,” Mr. Obama said near the conclusion of the “We Are One” concert. “Millions of Americans are losing their jobs and their homes. They’re worried about how they’ll afford college for their kids or pay the stack of bills on their kitchen tables. And most of all, they are anxious and uncertain about the future, about whether this generation of Americans will be able to pass on what’s best about this country to our children and their children. “I won’t pretend that meeting any one of these challenges will be easy. It will take more than a month or a year, and it will likely take many. Along the way there will be setbacks and false starts and days that test our resolve as a nation.” Despite the size of those challenges, he declared himself “as hopeful as ever” that the nation will thrive. Advertisement The concert, shown live on HBO, featured a litany of musicians who sang their more inspirational hits, like Stevie Wonder’s performance of “Higher Ground” with Usher and Shakira. Before singing “Pride (In the Name of Love),” U2’s tribute to Martin Luther King Jr., the lead singer Bono referred to Dr. King’s speech during the 1963 March on Washington at the same spot “43 years ago,” which he quickly corrected to “46.” The Dublin-born singer said Mr. Obama’s election was an American and Irish dream as well as “a European dream, an African dream, an Israeli dream.” After a pause, he added: “And also a Palestinian dream.” Mr. Obama, sitting off to the side with his family, nodded in time to the music and sang along as the country singer Garth Brooks belted out Don McLean’s “American Pie.” Mr. Springsteen performed “The Rising” with a gospel choir, and later returned to sing “This Land Is Your Land” with Pete Seeger, the folk singer who is now 89. Other performers included Mary J. Blige, James Taylor, John Legend, John Mellencamp, Josh Groban and Renée Fleming. In addition, such notables as Tom Hanks, Tiger Woods and Latifah paid tribute to former presidents, the military and everyday Americans. Mr. Obama’s three-day inaugural celebration in the capital began on a somber note Sunday morning at Arlington National Cemetery. Mr. Obama, accompanied by Mr. Biden, laid a wreath at the Tomb of the Unknowns. Mr. Obama laid his hand on his heart as a military bugler’s rendition of “Taps” played across the Virginia acreage that had once been the family estate of Confederate General Robert E. Lee. Mr. Obama’s wife, Michelle, and Mr. Biden’s wife, Jill, stood nearby. The Biden and Obama families then went their separate ways for Sunday morning church services. At the Nineteenth Street Baptist Church in Washington, the congregation erupted in applause when Mr. And Mrs. Obama, accompanied by their daughters, Sasha and Malia, walked in and took seats set aside in the second row, the Association Press reported. “Understand that God has prepared you and God has placed you,” the pastor, Derrick Harkins, said in his sermon. “And God will not forsake you.” Advertisement On the day before the nation commemorates Martin Luther King Jr., children at the service delivered lines recalling the slain civil rights leader. “Martin Luther King walked so that Barrack Obama could run,” said one boy, who was followed by another proclaiming: “Barack Obama ran so that all children could fly.” Mr. Biden and his family worshipped and received communion at Holy Trinity Roman Catholic Church, the same church President Kennedy attended the morning of Jan. 20, 1961, hours before his inauguration. The congregants on Sunday included Senator Patrick J. Leahy, a Vermont Democrat who is both a longtime parishioner and Senate colleague of Mr. Biden. The priest, the Rev. Larry Madden S.J. did not take explicit note of Mr. Biden’s presence but when the congregation was asked to welcome visitors, the audience applauded Mr. Biden, who stood in acknowledgement, the Associated Press reported. Jack Healy contributed reporting from New York. Go to Home Page »
Business   Wishin’ and Hopin’ (and Dunkin’). Advertisement Advertisement By STUART ELLIOTTJAN. 20, 2009 Editors’ Note: This newsletter is coming to you today because of the Dr. King holiday yesterday. Look for In Advertising next week on its regular day, Monday. The power of positive thinking has been promoted down through the decades by everyone from sages and self-help gurus to hucksters and swindlers. Now, in particularly parlous times, comes a campaign that offers an encouraging word, albeit with a reference to a brand name baked in. “You kin’ do it” is the theme of the upbeat campaign that began in early January in the form of television and radio commercials; print, online and outdoor ads; signs in stores; and promotions. As can be guessed from the replacement of “can” with “kin’,” the campaign is courtesy of the Dunkin’ Donuts division of Dunkin’ Brands. The campaign, with a budget estimated at more than $100 million, echoes commercials from years ago for the Gold Medal line of flour sold by General Mills. Those commercials borrowed from the musical “Guys and Dolls” a song called “Fugue for Tinhorns,” also known as “I’ve Got the Horse Right Here,” to reassure would-be bakers thusly: “Can do, can do. With Gold Medal you can do. Can do. Can do.” “You kin’ do it” is the next phase of the “America runs on Dunkin’” effort introduced in April 2006 by Hill, Holliday, Connors, Cosmopulos in Boston, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies. “You kin’ do it” is meant to add a can-do, “attaboy” aspect to the original slogan, reflecting the profound changes in the economy and the national mood in the last few months. Advertisement “We just felt people needed a sense of optimism, a sense of motivation, encouragement,” says Frances Allen, brand marketing officer at Dunkin’ Donuts in Canton, Mass. “We’re very conscious the economy has them rattled.” The campaign is indicative of what advertisers do to fine-tune continuing marketing messages in the face of shifts in consumer attitudes and behavior. Sometimes, campaigns require mid-course corrections to adjust to altered circumstances, like the way some brands have been toning down the irrational exuberance of their pitches since the recession started. Advertisement “You’ve always got to reflect what’s going on in consumers’ lives,” Ms. Allen says, especially in “trying times.” Dunkin’ Donuts is among several marketers that are deciding to accentuate the positive as Americans react to the financial crisis. For instance, a new campaign for Pepsi-Cola, carrying the theme “Refresh everything,” includes a commercial that casts a gauzy glance back at good times from the turn of the last century onward; the nostalgic tack is reminiscent of innumerable ads from the principal Pepsi rival, Coca-Cola. Speaking of Coke, that brand is replacing a campaign called “Welcome to the Coke side of life” with one that even more explicitly puts on a happy face. The new theme will be “Open happiness,” as seen in a newspaper ad on Monday, ahead of Inauguration Day, that carried the headline “Celebrate together.” The new Dunkin’ Donuts theme is intended to “underscore yet again that Dunkin’ is a brand that understands” what is customers need, Ms. Allen says, and “what they’re going through.” It will not replace “America runs on Dunkin’”; rather, both themes will appear in the chain’s ads. The goal of the new theme is “to remind everybody they will make it and Dunkin’ can help,” Ms. Allen says, through its role as a place “for people who want fast, fresh, affordable food and beverages.” She summed up the message this way: “No matter how big the challenge, Dunkin’ is where people can rely on getting high-quality coffee and baked goods.” Advertisement In delivering that message, the campaign takes a light, humorous tack, Ms. Allen says, acknowledging that the fast-food category is “a fun category, not a category that takes itself too seriously.” “We’re pink and orange, for God’s sake,” she adds, laughing, referring to the colors of the Dunkin’ Donuts logo. So the tasks that the ads show Dunkin’ customers accomplishing are not exactly on the scale of cleaning up the subprime mortgage mess or figuring out a way to get banks to make more loans. “I can shovel out this driveway,” a snowbound man declares in a TV commercial. A woman with four young children proclaims, “I can make it to naptime.” An office worker, almost lost amid a pile of files, asserts, “I can finish off this paperwork.” And a man in a backyard, surrounded by a jillion pieces of an unassembled playground kit, says, “I can put together this swing set by sundown.” In a radio spot, a tech-support worker is heard on the phone discussing a problem with a caller to his hot line. “Is the computer plugged in?” the worker asks, to which the caller replies, “Into what?” The worker responds, “The, uh, wall.” The caller says, “This computer didn’t come with any wall.” Pause. “O.K.,” the worker replies. “We’ll get through this.” An announcer comes on and says: “Getting the job done. You kin’ do it with Dunkin’ Donuts coffee. For over 50 years, it’s the coffee that’s kept people going. Dunkin’ Donuts. America runs on Dunkin’.” Advertisement The print, online and outdoor ads and posters take a similar tack. “Gettin’ into your skinny jeans,” one reads. “You kin’ do it.” Another says: “An hour-plus commute. You kin’ do it.” There are also product-focused ads that use the theme, somewhat less successfully. One such ad, for a new Egg White Flatbread menu item, reads: “Finding a tasty breakfast sandwich under 300 calories. You kin’ do it.” The concept of playing up the “kin’” in “Dunkin’” was discovered in treasure-hunt fashion, says Tim Cawley, a senior vice president and group creative director at Hill, Holliday. He is a copywriter who worked on the campaign with his art director partner, Kevin Daley, also a senior vice president and group creative director. “We’re sitting in the room with the big logo on the wall,” Mr. Cawley recalls, referring to the client’s brand name. “We’re putting stickies on the wall and we found this message hidden in the logo, like Indiana Jones hieroglyphics.” “If you need a treat because you’re so hard-working, you can do it,” Mr. Cawley says, summarizing what the theme is supposed to convey. “It’s a message of positivity without pandering.” In developing the theme, everyone sought to avoid making it “come across as rah-rah or in a frivolous way,” he adds, because “that would have felt off.” Similarly, the agency and Dunkin’ Donuts realize the economy is “a bad situation,” Mr. Cawley says, and do not want to appear as if they are trying “to capitalize on it.” He poked fun at that kind of ad by offering a make-believe example: “‘Times are tough. That’s why we’re your cooking spray.’” “We have to stay true to where we are and where people perceive us,” Mr. Cawley says, so the premise of concentrating on “regular, everyday people doing the little things” felt like the right thing to do. Advertisement  If you like In Advertising, be sure to read the Advertising column that runs Monday through Friday in the Business Day section of The New York Times print edition and on nytimes.com. Go to Home Page »
Food   Mark Bittman. Channels & Shows Home Search Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Mark Bittman, author of “The Minimalist” and “How to Cook Everything,” shares the kitchen with some of the most influential and inventive chefs from around the globe. Recent Episodes in Mark Bittman   Mark Bittman: California Matters 5:18 Chop Suey’s Next Wave   Mark Bittman: California Matters 4:29 A Walk on the Wild (Edibles) Side Mark Bittman 2:41 The Scramble: A Simple Greek Lunch Mark Bittman 4:12 The Rollout: An Ikarian Greens Pie Mark Bittman 2:32 Lorna Sass’s Pressure-Cooker Meatballs Mark Bittman 3:05 Claudia Fleming's Apple Crumb Crostata Mark Bittman 3:15 Danny Bowien’s Thanksgiving Pastrami Mark Bittman 2:38 André Soltner's Pumpkin Soup Mark Bittman 2:59 April Bloomfield's Clam Chowder Show more videos from Mark Bittman Most Popular 1 World A Dyeing Life 2 U.S. Copwatch vs. Cops: After Freddie Gray 3 Opinion Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics 4 Opinion I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked 5 U.S. Best of Obama's Correspondents' Dinner Speech 6 U.S. Haunted by Columbine 7 Opinion Manufacturing China’s Future 8 Opinion Fashion vs. Art 9 World Spinning Ice Circle in Russia 10 Food Coconut Cluster Granola © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Foreign   Ruling Faults U.S. Execution of Mexican. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content Skip to navigation View mobile version The New York Times Americas|Ruling Faults U.S. Execution of Mexican Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Supported by Americas | World Briefing | Americas Ruling Faults U.S. Execution of Mexican By MARC LACEYJAN. 20, 2009 Continue reading the main story Share This Page Continue reading the main story The International Court of Justice in The Hague ruled Monday that the United States violated an earlier ruling when Texas executed a Mexican man in August for the rape and murder of two teenage girls. In 2004, the court ordered the United States to review the cases of 51 Mexicans on death row who had not been informed of their right to speak with consular officials. The Bush administration had urged states to comply with the tribunal’s decision, but Texas judges allowed the lethal injection to proceed. The new ruling ordered the United States to review the cases of the remaining Mexicans facing the death penalty. A version of this article appears in print on , on page A11 of the New York edition with the headline: RULING FAULTS U.S. EXECUTION OF MEXICAN. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Continue reading the main story What's Next Loading... Go to Home Page » Site Index The New York Times Site Index Navigation News World U.S. Politics N.Y. Business Tech Science Health Sports Education Obituaries Today's Paper Corrections Opinion Today's Opinion Op-Ed Columnists Editorials Contributing Writers Op-Ed Contributors Opinionator Letters Sunday Review Taking Note Room for Debate Public Editor Video: Opinion Arts Today's Arts Art & Design ArtsBeat Books Dance Movies Music N.Y.C. Events Guide Television Theater Video: Arts Living Automobiles Crossword Food Education Fashion & Style Health Jobs Magazine N.Y.C. Events Guide Real Estate T Magazine Travel Weddings & Celebrations Listings & More Classifieds Tools & Services Times Topics Public Editor N.Y.C. Events Guide Blogs Multimedia Photography Video NYT Store Times Journeys Subscribe Manage My Account Subscribe Subscribe Times Insider Home Delivery Digital Subscriptions NYT Opinion Crossword Email Newsletters Alerts Gift Subscriptions Corporate Subscriptions Education Rate Mobile Applications Replica Edition International New York Times Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Science   Spicy Tunisian Carrot Frittata. Advertisement Advertisement Recipes for Health By MARTHA ROSE SHULMAN JAN. 20, 2009 Tunisian frittatas are sometimes baked in an earthenware dish in the oven, sometimes on top of the stove. This one, adapted from a recipe by Clifford Wright, is made like an Italian frittata, but the spices are unmistakably Tunisian. 1 pound carrots, peeled and sliced 1 tablespoon caraway seeds, ground 1 to 2 tablespoon harissa, to taste (see note) 4 large garlic cloves, minced 1 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper 1/4 cup finely chopped flat leaf parsley 8 large eggs 1 tablespoon extra virgin olive oil 1. Either boil the carrots in salted water, or steam until thoroughly tender, about 15 minutes. Drain and mash with a fork, or puree in a food processor fitted with the steel blade. Add the caraway, harissa, and garlic, and blend together. 2. Beat the eggs in a large bowl. Beat in the salt and pepper, and add the carrot mixture and the parsley. Mix together well. Heat the olive oil over medium-high heat in a heavy 10-inch nonstick skillet. Hold your hand above it; it should feel hot. Drop a bit of egg into the pan and if it sizzles and cooks at once, the pan is ready. Pour in the egg mixture. Swirl the pan to distribute the eggs and filling evenly over the surface. Shake the pan gently, tilting it slightly with one hand while lifting up the edges of the omelet with a spatula, to let the eggs run underneath during the first few minutes of cooking. Advertisement 3. Cover the pan, turn the heat down to low and cook 15 minutes, shaking the pan gently every once in a while, until the frittata is almost set. From time to time remove the lid and loosen the bottom of the omelet with a spatula, tilting the pan, so that the bottom doesn’t burn. Meanwhile, preheat the broiler. 4. Finish under the broiler for 1 to 3 minutes, watching very carefully to make sure the top doesn’t burn (it should brown slightly, and it will puff under the broiler). Remove from the heat, shake the pan to make sure the frittata isn’t sticking, and allow to cool for at least 5 minutes and up to 15. Loosen the edges with a wooden or plastic spatula. Carefully slide from the pan onto a large round platter. Serve warm or room temperature. Note: You can find harissa, the Tunisian spice paste, in Mediterranean markets. Yield: Serves 6 Advance preparation: The frittata can be made a day ahead and refrigerated, tightly wrapped. Approximate Nutritional Information (per Serving): Calories: 159; Calories from Fat: 85; Total Fat:: 9.5g; Saturated Fat: 2.2g; Cholesterol: 250mg; Sodium: 567mg; Total Carbohydrates: 10.5g; Dietary Fiber: 2.7g; Sugars: 4.8g; Protein: 9.2g; Vitamin A 271% Recommended Daily Allowance (RDA) Based on a 2,000 Calorie Diet; Vitamin C 15% RDA; Calcium 8% RDA; Iron 10% RDA See More » Go to Home Page »
Sports   Using The Petty Name. Advertisement Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSJAN. 20, 2009 Richard Petty’s name will remain active in Nascar under a rebranding of the new team created by the merger of his organization with Gillett Evernham Motorsports. The new team will be called Richard Petty Motorsports (R.P.M.), capitalizing on Petty’s marketability. The two race teams had agreed to a partnership that keeps the sponsor-strapped Pettys in racing. Reed Sorenson will drive Petty’s famed No. 43 Dodge for R.P.M. this season. Petty’s No. 44 Dodge will be run by A. J. Allmendinger in at least the first five races of the season as the team tries to find more sponsorship. They will be joined by GEM holdovers Kasey Kahne and Elliott Sadler, who both have full-time rides. A version of this brief appears in print on , on page B17 of the New York edition with the headline: Using The Petty Name. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Travel   Lessons From Flight 1549. Advertisement Advertisement By MICHELLE HIGGINSJAN. 20, 2009 LAST Thursday evening, as Kevin Leibel settled into his seat on an American Airlines regional plane about to take off from St. Louis to Raleigh, N.C., he did something he had rarely done in the past: He actually paid close attention to the safety procedures being recited by the flight attendant. It was less than four hours after US Airways Flight 1549 had splashed down in the Hudson River, with all passengers and flight crew eventually rescued, and which Mr. Leibel had watched with some amazement on the large-screen televisions in the Admirals Club at Lambert-St. Louis International Airport. “The conversation in the room centered on how we all wanted to know if the passengers sitting in the emergency exit really knew what they were doing,” Mr. Leibel, a frequent flier from Chapel Hill, N.C., recalled. So when his flight to Raleigh boarded for its 6:30 p.m. Central time takeoff, Mr. Leibel took his seat, 11C, in an emergency exit row and scanned his surroundings closely. “I did look at my row mates — one solo seat across the aisle and another seat next to mine — and briefly considered how they might perform,” he said. Mr. Leibel was not alone. Interviews with several passengers and flight attendants who flew in the hours and days after the Hudson River crash suggest that passengers’ awareness of their surroundings, and what to do in a possible emergency of their own, was at a height few had ever experienced before. “It was the first time I can remember when everyone paid attention to the safety announcement,” said Matt Davidson, an executive at a plastic injection molding company from Lake Forest, Ill., who flew from Chicago to Denver on Saturday. “Also, I and others around me checked for the red life-vest tab under the seat. The United attendant announced that infant life vests were available. I’ve never heard that before.” Advertisement Kidsflysafe.com, which sells a child safety harness for use on planes as an alternative to a car seat, reported a spike in visits to the site. “Apparently a lot of folks took a look at the crash and perhaps have travel coming up with their child and thought, ‘I need that,’ ” Lisa Orman, a spokeswoman for the site, wrote in an email message. It wasn’t just the passengers who were on increased alert. Flight attendants also found themselves reliving the details of the US Airways crash, and reminding one another of what they had learned in training programs of their own. Advertisement “After the miracle-on-the-Hudson incident occurred, I started trying to imagine what I would have done,” said Debby Gravitt, a veteran flight attendant with American Airlines. “The first thing I did was get out my in-flight manual and study the ditching portion of the 757, which I am currently flying. Those flight attendants had to immediately pull everything from memory while maintaining calm. “We have a 30-second review we are supposed to do in our heads before every takeoff, and we are supposed to pick out which two passengers we would choose to use to aid us in our emergency landing,” she added. “Without a doubt, I plan to do this every time from here on.” And for passengers and flight crew members alike, the important role of people who sit in the exit rows was reinforced. Mr. Leibel, for one, found himself questioning the long-standing policy that those exit-row seats, with their extra legroom, often go to frequent fliers, as a perk, or are even sold by airlines like Virgin, Northwest and JetBlue, to passengers who are willing to pay a bit more for the extra space. “The competence of the passenger is never considered, and the screening questions online are a joke,” Mr. Leibel said. Accounts of the evacuation of Flight 1549 indicate that one of the key reasons the passengers were able to escape was that a man, only identified in previous reports as Josh, followed the instructions printed on the laminated cards in the emergency exit rows. Josh apparently had read the card and knew how to open the emergency door. When someone tried to pull the door in, The New York Times reported last week, Josh stepped in and, according to one of the thankful survivors, said: "‘No, you’ve got to throw it out.’ He twisted it and threw it out.” Not everyone was as clear-thinking during what some passengers described as the “controlled chaos” of the evacuation, stopping to snatch bags from the overhead bins. Advertisement “That’s one of the things you constantly hear about,” said Lonny Glover, safety and security coordinator for the flight attendants union at American Airlines, the Association of Professional Flight Attendants, who has debriefed passengers involved in accidents. “How things were slowed down because a passenger is reaching up to take a suitcase or laptop out of the overhead bin.” Flight crews are trained to guide passengers in an emergency with calm but direct commands: Unfasten seat belts! Come this way! Don’t take anything with you! In the case of Flight 1549, it appears the pilot expertly handled the emergency river landing, and flight attendants did their best to keep passengers calm while quickly evacuating the aircraft. In a water landing, flight attendants are taught never to open the rear door because it could sink the plane. Indeed, some passengers who were at the back of Flight 1549 reported flooding nearly up to their necks. The flooding would have been much worse if one of the flight attendants onboard had not stopped a passenger from opening a rear door and letting in a gush of water, according to a report by The Associated Press. The Federal Aviation Administration mandates that every crew member receive training in so-called ditching, or emergency water landings. Instruction must be specific to the aircraft and safety equipment onboard. But the number of hours dedicated to training and the type of drills can vary from airline to airline. For example, some flight attendants are trained to fly both domestic and international routes. American Airlines flight attendants review ditching procedures each year during recurrent training at the company’s headquarters in Fort Worth, Tex., including use of flotation devices and what to say and do to evacuate the plane safely. But only American’s international flight attendants, who typically fly on aircraft outfitted with life rafts, flares and other emergency equipment designed for survival in large bodies of water, get into a pool and practice inflating and boarding a raft. For passengers, Mr. Glover recommends the following safety tips: Pull out the emergency briefing card in the seat back pocket and review it. “Most passengers unfortunately feel they know their own surroundings and have been on the planes frequently. This time the plane may be changed to a different type. The exits may be located in a different area and may operate differently than the ones you are used to.” When you sit down, count the number of rows or seats to your nearest emergency exit — in front and behind. “If the plane is damaged or filled with smoke and you need to get out, it could be a very chaotic environment in the cabin. It is best to know how many rows you may need to go in the dark cabin to get out. Also, the exit closest to you or the one you boarded through could be blocked. Know where the next available one is and how close it is. It could be right behind you.” In a smoke-filled cabin, breathe through a piece of your clothing. “Cover your nose and mouth with a piece of your clothing to filter out the smoke.” Advertisement During an emergency evacuation, leave your carry-on luggage behind. “Passengers trying to remove luggage from the bins in an emergency are taking up precious time to evacuate. You are blocking the aisle and delaying others trying to evacuate. Studies show everyone has approximately 90 seconds to get out. Key here: Which is more important — your laptop, your suitcase or your life? It’s an easy choice.” Go to Home Page »
U.S.   Watching the Inauguration in New York. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Politics Watching the Inauguration in New York By Kassie Bracken | Jan. 20, 2009 | 1:53 New Yorkers lined the streets in Harlem and Times Square to watch President Obama address the nation on Tuesday. Show More PlaylistUp Next in Politics Next →   Asia Pacific1:06 Kim Jong-un Boasts of Nuclear Strides   Europe0:45 Labour Party Leader on Election Results   Middle East1:01 Kerry Seeks to Save Cease-Fire in Syria Retro Report U.S. & Politics13:27 Welfare and the Politics of Poverty   U.S. & Politics8:22 Best of Obama's Correspondents' Dinner Speech   U.S. & Politics1:16 What Are ‘Bathroom Rights’?   Election 20161:13 Boehner Insults. Cruz Responds.   U.S. & Politics1:49 Ted Cruz Picks Carly Fiorina for Ticket   Election 20160:25 Trump Says Only Gender Shores Up Clinton   Election 20163:22 Candidates Speak After Primaries © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Washington   Barack Obama’s Inaugural Address. Advertisement Advertisement JAN. 20, 2009 Following is the transcript of President Barack Obama’s Inaugural Address, as transcribed by CQ Transcriptions: PRESIDENT BARACK OBAMA: Thank you. Thank you. CROWD: Obama! Obama! Obama! Obama! My fellow citizens: I stand here today humbled by the task before us, grateful for the trust you have bestowed, mindful of the sacrifices borne by our ancestors. I thank President Bush for his service to our nation... (APPLAUSE) ... as well as the generosity and cooperation he has shown throughout this transition. Forty-four Americans have now taken the presidential oath. The words have been spoken during rising tides of prosperity and the still waters of peace. Yet, every so often the oath is taken amidst gathering clouds and raging storms. At these moments, America has carried on not simply because of the skill or vision of those in high office, but because We the People have remained faithful to the ideals of our forebears, and true to our founding documents. So it has been. So it must be with this generation of Americans. That we are in the midst of crisis is now well understood. Our nation is at war against a far-reaching network of violence and hatred. Our economy is badly weakened, a consequence of greed and irresponsibility on the part of some but also our collective failure to make hard choices and prepare the nation for a new age. Advertisement Homes have been lost, jobs shed, businesses shuttered. Our health care is too costly, our schools fail too many, and each day brings further evidence that the ways we use energy strengthen our adversaries and threaten our planet. These are the indicators of crisis, subject to data and statistics. Less measurable, but no less profound, is a sapping of confidence across our land; a nagging fear that America's decline is inevitable, that the next generation must lower its sights. Today I say to you that the challenges we face are real, they are serious and they are many. They will not be met easily or in a short span of time. But know this America: They will be met. (APPLAUSE) On this day, we gather because we have chosen hope over fear, unity of purpose over conflict and discord. On this day, we come to proclaim an end to the petty grievances and false promises, the recriminations and worn-out dogmas that for far too long have strangled our politics. We remain a young nation, but in the words of Scripture, the time has come to set aside childish things. The time has come to reaffirm our enduring spirit; to choose our better history; to carry forward that precious gift, that noble idea, passed on from generation to generation: the God-given promise that all are equal, all are free, and all deserve a chance to pursue their full measure of happiness. (APPLAUSE) In reaffirming the greatness of our nation, we understand that greatness is never a given. It must be earned. Our journey has never been one of shortcuts or settling for less. It has not been the path for the faint-hearted, for those who prefer leisure over work, or seek only the pleasures of riches and fame. Advertisement Rather, it has been the risk-takers, the doers, the makers of things -- some celebrated, but more often men and women obscure in their labor -- who have carried us up the long, rugged path towards prosperity and freedom. For us, they packed up their few worldly possessions and traveled across oceans in search of a new life. For us, they toiled in sweatshops and settled the West, endured the lash of the whip and plowed the hard earth. For us, they fought and died in places Concord and Gettysburg; Normandy and Khe Sanh. Time and again these men and women struggled and sacrificed and worked till their hands were raw so that we might live a better life. They saw America as bigger than the sum of our individual ambitions; greater than all the differences of birth or wealth or faction. This is the journey we continue today. We remain the most prosperous, powerful nation on Earth. Our workers are no less productive than when this crisis began. Our minds are no less inventive, our goods and services no less needed than they were last week or last month or last year. Our capacity remains undiminished. But our time of standing pat, of protecting narrow interests and putting off unpleasant decisions -- that time has surely passed. Starting today, we must pick ourselves up, dust ourselves off, and begin again the work of remaking America. Advertisement (APPLAUSE) For everywhere we look, there is work to be done. The state of our economy calls for action: bold and swift. And we will act not only to create new jobs but to lay a new foundation for growth. We will build the roads and bridges, the electric grids and digital lines that feed our commerce and bind us together. We will restore science to its rightful place and wield technology's wonders to raise health care's quality... Advertisement (APPLAUSE) ... and lower its costs. We will harness the sun and the winds and the soil to fuel our cars and run our factories. And we will transform our schools and colleges and universities to meet the demands of a new age. All this we can do. All this we will do. Now, there are some who question the scale of our ambitions, who suggest that our system cannot tolerate too many big plans. Their memories are short, for they have forgotten what this country has already done, what free men and women can achieve when imagination is joined to common purpose and necessity to courage. What the cynics fail to understand is that the ground has shifted beneath them, that the stale political arguments that have consumed us for so long, no longer apply. MR. The question we ask today is not whether our government is too big or too small, but whether it works, whether it helps families find jobs at a decent wage, care they can afford, a retirement that is dignified. Where the answer is yes, we intend to move forward. Where the answer is no, programs will end. And those of us who manage the public's dollars will be held to account, to spend wisely, reform bad habits, and do our business in the light of day, because only then can we restore the vital trust between a people and their government. Nor is the question before us whether the market is a force for good or ill. Its power to generate wealth and expand freedom is unmatched. But this crisis has reminded us that without a watchful eye, the market can spin out of control. The nation cannot prosper long when it favors only the prosperous. The success of our economy has always depended not just on the size of our gross domestic product, but on the reach of our prosperity; on the ability to extend opportunity to every willing heart -- not out of charity, but because it is the surest route to our common good. Advertisement (APPLAUSE) As for our common defense, we reject as false the choice between our safety and our ideals. Our founding fathers faced with perils that we can scarcely imagine, drafted a charter to assure the rule of law and the rights of man, a charter expanded by the blood of generations. Those ideals still light the world, and we will not give them up for expedience's sake. And so, to all other peoples and governments who are watching today, from the grandest capitals to the small village where my father was born: know that America is a friend of each nation and every man, woman and child who seeks a future of peace and dignity, and we are ready to lead once more. (APPLAUSE) Recall that earlier generations faced down fascism and communism not just with missiles and tanks, but with the sturdy alliances and enduring convictions. They understood that our power alone cannot protect us, nor does it entitle us to do as we please. Instead, they knew that our power grows through its prudent use. Our security emanates from the justness of our cause; the force of our example; the tempering qualities of humility and restraint. We are the keepers of this legacy, guided by these principles once more, we can meet those new threats that demand even greater effort, even greater cooperation and understanding between nations. We'll begin to responsibly leave Iraq to its people and forge a hard- earned peace in Afghanistan. With old friends and former foes, we'll work tirelessly to lessen the nuclear threat and roll back the specter of a warming planet. We will not apologize for our way of life nor will we waver in its defense. And for those who seek to advance their aims by inducing terror and slaughtering innocents, we say to you now that, "Our spirit is stronger and cannot be broken. You cannot outlast us, and we will defeat you." Advertisement (APPLAUSE) For we know that our patchwork heritage is a strength, not a weakness. We are a nation of Christians and Muslims, Jews and Hindus, and nonbelievers. We are shaped by every language and culture, drawn from every end of this Earth. And because we have tasted the bitter swill of civil war and segregation and emerged from that dark chapter stronger and more united, we cannot help but believe that the old hatreds shall someday pass; that the lines of tribe shall soon dissolve; that as the world grows smaller, our common humanity shall reveal itself; and that America must play its role in ushering in a new era of peace. To the Muslim world, we seek a new way forward, based on mutual interest and mutual respect. To those leaders around the globe who seek to sow conflict or blame their society's ills on the West, know that your people will judge you on what you can build, not what you destroy. To those... (APPLAUSE) To those who cling to power through corruption and deceit and the silencing of dissent, know that you are on the wrong side of history, but that we will extend a hand if you are willing to unclench your fist. (APPLAUSE) To the people of poor nations, we pledge to work alongside you to make your farms flourish and let clean waters flow; to nourish starved bodies and feed hungry minds. And to those nations like ours that enjoy relative plenty, we say we can no longer afford indifference to the suffering outside our borders, nor can we consume the world's resources without regard to effect. For the world has changed, and we must change with it. As we consider the road that unfolds before us, we remember with humble gratitude those brave Americans who, at this very hour, patrol far-off deserts and distant mountains. They have something to tell us, just as the fallen heroes who lie in Arlington whisper through the ages. We honor them not only because they are guardians of our liberty, but because they embody the spirit of service: a willingness to find meaning in something greater than themselves. Advertisement And yet, at this moment, a moment that will define a generation, it is precisely this spirit that must inhabit us all. For as much as government can do and must do, it is ultimately the faith and determination of the American people upon which this nation relies. It is the kindness to take in a stranger when the levees break; the selflessness of workers who would rather cut their hours than see a friend lose their job which sees us through our darkest hours. It is the firefighter's courage to storm a stairway filled with smoke, but also a parent's willingness to nurture a child, that finally decides our fate. Our challenges may be new, the instruments with which we meet them may be new, but those values upon which our success depends, honesty and hard work, courage and fair play, tolerance and curiosity, loyalty and patriotism -- these things are old. These things are true. They have been the quiet force of progress throughout our history. What is demanded then is a return to these truths. What is required of us now is a new era of responsibility -- a recognition, on the part of every American, that we have duties to ourselves, our nation and the world, duties that we do not grudgingly accept but rather seize gladly, firm in the knowledge that there is nothing so satisfying to the spirit, so defining of our character than giving our all to a difficult task. This is the price and the promise of citizenship. This is the source of our confidence: the knowledge that God calls on us to shape an uncertain destiny. This is the meaning of our liberty and our creed, why men and women and children of every race and every faith can join in celebration across this magnificent mall. And why a man whose father less than 60 years ago might not have been served at a local restaurant can now stand before you to take a most sacred oath. Advertisement (APPLAUSE) So let us mark this day in remembrance of who we are and how far we have traveled. In the year of America's birth, in the coldest of months, a small band of patriots huddled by dying campfires on the shores of an icy river. The capital was abandoned. The enemy was advancing. The snow was stained with blood. At a moment when the outcome of our revolution was most in doubt, the father of our nation ordered these words be read to the people: "Let it be told to the future world that in the depth of winter, when nothing but hope and virtue could survive, that the city and the country, alarmed at one common danger, came forth to meet it." America, in the face of our common dangers, in this winter of our hardship, let us remember these timeless words; with hope and virtue, let us brave once more the icy currents, and endure what storms may come; let it be said by our children's children that when we were tested we refused to let this journey end, that we did not turn back nor did we falter; and with eyes fixed on the horizon and God's grace upon us, we carried forth that great gift of freedom and delivered it safely to future generations. Thank you. God bless you. (APPLAUSE) And God bless the United States of America. (APPLAUSE) Go to Home Page »
Business   Income Taxes: What You Need to Know. Advertisement Advertisement By TARA SIEGEL BERNARDJAN. 21, 2009 When it comes to income taxes, there are different types of people. There are individuals who find pleasure in tackling the 1040 all on their own. At the other end of the spectrum, there are people who make a mad dash for the nearest H&R Block about 9 p.m. on April 15. But no matter where you fall on that scale, it’s important to master the basics. Most of life’s milestones carry some sort of tax implication, whether it’s having a child, purchasing a home, changing jobs or, yes, even dying. And as you travel through life and your situation evolves, your approach to income taxes needs to be adjusted accordingly. To complicate matters, the rule book is constantly changing. So taxpayers must sort through a befuddling mix of new rules, deductions and credits each year. For some people, all of the noise is justification enough to pay an accountant. Even if you do, there is still a variety of issues you should be aware of that will help you maximize your tax savings. This guide will explain how income taxes work and how to trim your bill, and offer a few approaches to tax preparation. Income Taxes If you work in the United States, you will probably incur some sort of federal income tax liability each year. Most people will also owe state income taxes, though a handful of states like Florida and Texas don’t impose income taxes at all. (Pro athletes don’t settle there just for the sunny skies.) A few cities and townships add another layer to the mix of taxes you’ll pay; this list details what the various state and local governments charge. Advertisement The amount you owe — for federal, state and local taxes — is determined by how much you earn each year. The United States uses a progressive tax system, which means the more money you earn, the higher your tax rate. The chart above lays out the different tax brackets and rates, which depends on your filing status (single, married couples filing jointly, married filing separately, etc.). Your employer will typically withhold income taxes from your paycheck. The precise amount withheld for federal income taxes depends on how you fill out your W-4 form, which is completed when you start a new job. You’re asked to provide information about your marital status and whether you have children or work more than one job. This information determines how many “personal allowances” you are eligible for — the more allowances you claim, the less that will be withheld from your paycheck. You can claim all of the allowance you’re eligible for, some of them, or none at all. In fact, if you’re married, you can still have taxes withheld at the higher, single rate. Just remember that you don’t want to have too much withheld, thereby providing the government with an interest-free loan. The I.R.S. has a calculator that helps you aim for a number of allowances that will come close to matching the amount of tax you’ll owe. Besides income taxes, there are other federal taxes withheld from your paycheck: taxes that finance Social Security and Medicare, also known as payroll taxes or FICA (short for Federal Insurance Contributions Act). You split these with your employer. You pay 6.2 percent of your gross income to cover the Social Security piece, up to a limit of $102,000; in 2009, that figure rises to $106,800. The Medicare tax is 1.45 percent of income, with no limit. Employers are responsible for contributing the same amount you do. (Payroll taxes are not withheld from your paycheck if you work for an international organization or if you’re a member of the clergy. You are responsible for paying them on your own.) If you’re self-employed or a small-business owner, taxes become more even complicated because you’re required to handle everything on your own. That means figuring out how much you’ll need to set aside to cover income and self-employment taxes for Social Security and Medicare (You pay both employer and employee contributions, or 12.4 percent for Social Security and 2.9 percent for Medicare.) You’ll also need to make estimated tax payments each quarter, or face penalties. So be sure to read the I.R.S. guidelines or consult with a tax professional. Cutting Your Tax Bill There are several ways to lower your annual tax bill. The government allows you to deduct certain items from your gross income, or the amount you earn before taxes, thereby shrinking the pool of money you’re taxed on. This can be accomplished in several ways. Exclusions: First, there are the items not listed on your tax returns. These are known as exclusions, and they either work to reduce your gross income — or, they don’t add to it. For instance, pretax contributions to your employer-sponsored retirement account or a flexible spending account will reduce your gross income, dollar for dollar. If you collect interest from a municipal bond investment, it won’t add to your gross income. Above-the-Line Deductions: The next way to whittle down your gross income is through certain deductions available to all taxpayers, known as adjustments to gross income, or A.G.I. Once you subtract these — they include items like moving expenses, student loan interest and certain retirement contributions — you arrive at your A.G.I. Advertisement These items are more commonly known as “above the line” deductions because they appear above the line for adjusted gross income on your tax return. They are deemed more beneficial than “below the line” deductions, which are often subject to income limits or other restrictions. Meanwhile, your eligibility for other deductions will be based on your A.G.I. The smaller it is, the better. Below-the-Line Deductions: Most taxpayers are also eligible for another tax reducer, known as the standard deduction; the amount of this deduction varies depending on your filing status (single, married filing jointly, etc.). But if your eligible individual deductions exceed the amount of the standard deduction — or you’re ineligible for the standard deduction — it makes sense to itemize. Itemizing is more involved than simply taking the standard deduction; you’ll need to list each item on a form called Schedule A, which is part of the 1040. You can read more about determining which way you’ll come out ahead on the I.R.S. Web site. Some of the most common itemized deductions include mortgage interest, charitable donations, job-related expenses and certain losses arising from casualty, theft and the bankruptcy of your financial institution. Credits: In addition to deductions, some taxpayers are also eligible for tax credits. These are dollar-for-dollar reductions of taxes owed. So, for instance, if you end up owing $2,000 in taxes, but are eligible for a $500 tax credit, your tax bill will drop to $1,500. This differs from a $500 tax deduction, which would simply reduce the amount of your income subject to tax by $500. Some of the most commonly used credits include the Earned Income Tax Credit, the Child and Dependent Care Credit and Education Credits. If you itemize, you need to use the longer 1040 tax form instead of the abbreviated 1040EZ and 1040A forms. The 1040EZ is the easiest form for non-itemizers, but you must have taxable income below $100,000, file a single or joint return with no dependents, and be under age 65. Advertisement The 1040A is another shorter form for people who make less than $100,000 and who do not itemize. But married couples who file separately can also use it, and there are fewer restrictions on the types of income and credits you can claim. Alternative Minimum Tax Some taxpayers might be subject to the alternative minimum tax, which is a parallel tax system set up in 1969 to ensure that the wealthiest taxpayers paid their fair share of taxes. But since the A.M.T. was never indexed for inflation, it now entraps more upper-middle-income taxpayers. For the 2008 tax year, about 4.1 million taxpayers will be subject to the tax, up from 20,000 in 1970, according to the Urban-Brookings Tax Policy Center. It tends to affect married people with children (and therefore multiple dependent exemptions), large property tax deductions and high state and local tax deductions. If you expect to be caught by the A.M.T., you should calculate your taxes twice, once under the regular system and again under the A.M.T. rules, which, in part, add back the deductions that are not allowed under its own set of rules and rates. Advertisement The alternative minimum tax also imposes a flat rate — of 26 percent and 28 percent — on a broader base of income. Taxpayers pay whichever amount is larger. In recent years, Congress has increased the amount of income exempt from the A.M.T. annually. For joint filers, that amount increases to $69,950 in 2008, from $66,250 in 2007, and, for singles, to $46,200 from $44,350. Filing Taxes There are a few ways to prepare your taxes. Some people prefer to hand over all records, receipts and other paperwork to an accountant. Using a professional is often wise if you have a complicated situation that might include many investments, estate issues and other complexities. Beyond recommendations from friends and family members, you can find a list of advisers through the National Association of Tax Professionals. Keep in mind that only certified public accountants, enrolled agents and tax lawyers can represent you before the I.R.S. If you have a pretty straightforward situation, it’s much less expensive to prepare your own returns. Here are some options: I.R.S. Free File: All taxpayers can file their federal returns online through the I.R.S. Web site. But if your income is $56,000 or less, you can use the Free File program, which provides access to free tax software. The companies that take part in this program have different eligibility requirements: start by reading the instructions, then hit its “Guide Me to a Program” tool, to see which companies’ software you qualify for. You’ll probably qualify to use several, but the quality differs widely. Remember that while this service is free for federal tax returns, the sites charge different amounts to process your state returns. If you make more than $56,000, you can still fill out and file your federal forms electronically — free — through the “Free File Fillable Forms” program. But you do not get access to any tax software. That's why this option is best suited for people who know what forms they need to use and don’t need much hand-holding when completing their tax returns. Visit your state tax department's Web site to see what options it offers for electronic filing. Tax Software: Several companies sell software that guides taxpayers through the filing process. You can buy these online (and download the software) or off the shelf. Prices range from roughly $25 to under $100. Some of the most widely known programs include TurboTax, H&R Block’s TaxCut and TaxAct. Record Keeping The rule of thumb is to keep all records supporting your tax return for seven years. The I.R.S. generally has three years to perform an audit. But if the tax man suspects you haven’t reported a sizable chunk of income (exceeding 25 percent of the gross income reported on your return), the I.R.S. can try to collect the remainder for up to six years. Details on what to keep and for how long are available in the I.R.S. guidelines. Keep in mind that your records might need to be kept for other reasons, such as for insurance purposes or getting a loan. Go to Home Page »
Foreign   Spain: 6 Accused of Aiding Terrorists. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content Skip to navigation View mobile version The New York Times Europe|Spain: 6 Accused of Aiding Terrorists Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Supported by Europe | World Briefing | Europe Spain: 6 Accused of Aiding Terrorists By VICTORIA BURNETTJAN. 20, 2009 Continue reading the main story Share This Page Continue reading the main story The Spanish police arrested six men on Tuesday, most of them Pakistanis, on suspicion of illegally diverting funds from telecommunications businesses to terrorist groups, a police spokesman said. The men were arrested in raids on businesses and homes in four cities, including Barcelona, on the orders of Judge Baltasar Garzón, a high-profile antiterrorism judge. The police have arrested dozens of people in the past few years on suspicion of helping finance militant Islamist groups or plotting attacks. Last January, they arrested 14 Pakistani men in Barcelona on suspicion of plotting to blow up commuter trains. A version of this brief appears in print on , on page A12 of the New York edition with the headline: Spain: 6 Accused of Aiding Terrorists. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Continue reading the main story What's Next Loading... Go to Home Page » Site Index The New York Times Site Index Navigation News World U.S. Politics N.Y. Business Tech Science Health Sports Education Obituaries Today's Paper Corrections Opinion Today's Opinion Op-Ed Columnists Editorials Contributing Writers Op-Ed Contributors Opinionator Letters Sunday Review Taking Note Room for Debate Public Editor Video: Opinion Arts Today's Arts Art & Design ArtsBeat Books Dance Movies Music N.Y.C. Events Guide Television Theater Video: Arts Living Automobiles Crossword Food Education Fashion & Style Health Jobs Magazine N.Y.C. Events Guide Real Estate T Magazine Travel Weddings & Celebrations Listings & More Classifieds Tools & Services Times Topics Public Editor N.Y.C. Events Guide Blogs Multimedia Photography Video NYT Store Times Journeys Subscribe Manage My Account Subscribe Subscribe Times Insider Home Delivery Digital Subscriptions NYT Opinion Crossword Email Newsletters Alerts Gift Subscriptions Corporate Subscriptions Education Rate Mobile Applications Replica Edition International New York Times Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Movies   The Carpetbagger. Channels & Shows Home Search Culture Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Get behind the scenes of Hollywood’s awards season, with close-up looks at Oscar-nominated films and exclusive red-carpet access to the hottest actors, actresses and directors. Recent Episodes in The Carpetbagger The Carpetbagger Culture 3:34 Dressing ‘Inherent Vice’ The Carpetbagger Culture 3:01 Patricia Arquette Grows Into ‘Boyhood’ The Carpetbagger Culture 2:09 Sundance in Slow-Mo   Clothes and Character 2:56 Dressing the Hawkings   Clothes and Character 3:36 In ‘Selma,’ Trench Coats Amid Protests The Carpetbagger Culture 2:26 David Oyelowo and ‘Selma’ The Carpetbagger Culture 4:45 Common and John Legend Perform ‘Glory’ The Carpetbagger Culture 3:02 Patti Smith’s Cinematic Lullaby The Carpetbagger Culture 2:22 Big Eyes, Big Lies Show more videos from The Carpetbagger Most Popular 1 World A Dyeing Life 2 U.S. Copwatch vs. Cops: After Freddie Gray 3 Opinion Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics 4 Opinion I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked 5 U.S. Best of Obama's Correspondents' Dinner Speech 6 U.S. Haunted by Columbine 7 Opinion Manufacturing China’s Future 8 Opinion Fashion vs. Art 9 World Spinning Ice Circle in Russia 10 Food Coconut Cluster Granola © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Science   A Ubiquitous, Stressful Virus. Dr. Johanna Goldfarb is the head of pediatric infectious diseases at the Cleveland Clinic Children’s Hospital. “Mononucleosis is still everywhere,” she said of the virus that was first described more than a century ago. “It causes a lot of stress among families, because it can cause children to be sick for so long.” Here are the five things she thinks everyone should know about mono and the Epstein-Barr virus that causes it.  1. Mono has a particular set of symptoms. People often confuse mono with other viruses like the flu or the common cold because some of the symptoms like fever and fatigue overlap. But it is important to remember that mono typically manifests itself as a specific group of symptoms including a sore throat, swollen lymph nodes and an enlarged spleen. 2. Symptoms typically last three to four weeks. People with mono can be sick for several months, but in most cases the virus tends to run its course after a month. In general, symptoms are worse during the first two weeks and then begin to subside. 3. Mono is contagious, but only through close contact. The virus is transmitted through direct contact with saliva, and while mono is commonly thought of as the kissing disease, the virus can also spread by simply shaking hands or sharing utensils with an infected person. The mono virus is actually less contagious than other viruses like the common cold. 4. Rest is important, but so is reconditioning. The best treatment for mono is rest, but after a period of prolonged bed rest it is helpful to get up and move around. It is important that you wait until your acute symptoms subside and you receive clearance from a physician before you engage in sports or any type of exercise program. If your spleen is still enlarged, strenuous activity could cause it to rupture. 5. The Epstein-Barr virus does not cause chronic fatigue syndrome, a debilitating illness with mono-like symptoms that can persist for years. In the past there was speculation of a link, but that theory has been widely discredited. Researchers are still trying to understand what causes the mysterious illness.  Publish date: 1/21/2009  May 9, 2016, 12:01 AM May 6, 2016 May 6, 2016 May 6, 2016 May 6, 2016 BMI Calculator What’s your score? » Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers. New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse.
Sports   United Gains Final. Advertisement Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSJAN. 21, 2009 Manchester United reached the League Cup final, beating Derby County, 4-2, behind a goal from Cristiano Ronaldo. United advanced with a 4-3 advantage in total goals. On Wednesday, Tottenham will try to protect a 4-1 advantage over Burnley to assure itself a spot in the March 1 League Cup final. United had a 3-0 lead on goals by Nani, John O’Shea and Carlos Tevez and seemed to have put the game out of reach. But the Derby substitute Giles Barnes scored twice in the final 10 minutes around Ronaldo’s penalty kick goal to make it close. Having already won the Club World Cup in December, United, the English champion, remains the only club in contention for all three domestic trophies and the Champions League. In the F.A. Cup, Doncaster beat Cheltenham, 3-0, in a third-round replay and will face Aston Villa in Saturday’s fourth round. A version of this brief appears in print on , on page B11 of the New York edition with the headline: United Gains Final. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
U.S.   President Obama’s First Day. Subscribe Now Subscribe campaign: inyt2015_bar1_digi_usd_4L9UF -- 277474, creative: inyt2015_bar1_digi_buttononly_usd_4L9UF -- 406560, page: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/us/0121-DAYONE.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/us, position: Bar1 Log In Register Now Help More Slide Shows U.S. Search Slide Shows All Multimedia » Close President Obama’s First Day « Previous 1 of 11 Next » Sign In to E-Mail Just hours after a long day of inaugural ceremony and celebration ended, President Barack Obama took up a pressing schedule on Wednesday, his first full day in office. Credit: Pete Souza/The White House Related Article: On First Day, Obama Quickly Sets a New Tone Article: A Busy Night, Then a Busier Day at Work Article: I Really Do Swear, Faithfully: Obama and Roberts Try Again Home U.S. © 2011 The New York Times Company Privacy Policy Your Ad Choices Contact Us Help Work for Us Site Map campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_personalized_isEDU_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/us/0121-DAYONE.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/us, position: Inv1
Washington   Speech Spanned History and Confronted Bush. Advertisement Advertisement By DAVID E. SANGERJAN. 20, 2009 WASHINGTON — Though couched in indirect terms, Barack Obama’s inaugural address was a stark repudiation of the era of George W. Bush and a vow to drive the United States into “a new age” by reclaiming the values of an older one. It was a delicate task, with Mr. Bush and the former vice president, Dick Cheney, sitting feet from him as he described the false turns and the roads not taken. In his words, Mr. Obama blamed no one other than the country itself — “our collective failure to make hard choices” and a willingness to suspend national ideals “for expedience’s sake.” Yet every time Mr. Obama urged Americans to “choose our better history,” to make decisions according to science instead of ideology, to reject a “false choice” between safety and American ideals, to recognize that American military power does not “entitle us to do as we please,” he signaled a commitment to pragmatism not just as a governing strategy but as a basic value. It was, in many ways, exactly what one might have expected from a man who propelled himself to the highest office in the land by denouncing where an excess of ideological zeal has taken the nation. But what was surprising about the speech was how much Mr. Obama dwelled on America’s choices at this moment in history, rather than the momentousness of his ascension to the presidency. Much as he did during his campaign, he barely mentioned his race in his first moments as the 44th president of the United States. He did not need to. The surroundings said it all as he stood on the steps of a Capitol built by the hands of slaves, and as he placed his own hand on the Bible last used by the Great Liberator. Advertisement He talked instead, with echoes of Churchill, of the challenges of taking command of a nation beset by what he called “gathering clouds and raging storms.” And as a student of past inaugural addresses, he knew what he needed to accomplish. He had to evoke the clarion call for national unity that Lincoln made the centerpiece of his second inaugural in 1865. He had to instill the sense of optimism and patience that resounded in Franklin Delano Roosevelt’s first inaugural in 1933, as the nation confronted the worst moments of the Great Depression. And finally, he needed to recall the combination of national inspiration and resoluteness that John F. Kennedy delivered from the same spot, six months before Mr. Obama was born. As his voice and image tripped down the Mall, Mr. Obama spoke across many generations stretched to the Washington Monument and beyond. Mixed in the crowd were the last remnants of a World War II generation, the Tuskeegee Airmen among them, for whom Jim Crow was such a daily presence that this day seemed unimaginable. There were middle-aged and elderly veterans of the civil rights movement for whom this seemed the crowning achievement of a lifetime of struggles. There were young Americans — and an overwhelming number of young African-Americans — with no memory of the civil rights movement or of the Cold War, for whom Mr. Obama was a symbol of a new age of instant messaging, instant communication and integration in every new sense of the word. For those three generations, for the veterans who arrived in wheelchairs and the teenagers wearing earphones and tapping on their iPhones, Mr. Obama’s speech was far less important than the moment. Many of those who braved the 17 degree chill to swarm onto the mall at daybreak had said they would not believe America would install a black president until they saw and heard him take the oath, even if on a Jumbotron a mile from the event. His appearance on the Capitol steps was so historic that the address became larger than its own language, more imbued with meaning than anything he could say. And yet what he did say must have come as a bit of a shock to Mr. Bush, who knew his policies had been widely criticized, yet rarely over the past eight year had to sit in silence listening to a speech about how America had taken a tragic detour. It was Mr. Bush, in 2004, who vowed repeatedly that it was his job “to confront problems, not to pass them on to future presidents and future generations.” Yet there was Mr. Obama, blaming America’s economic peril to an era “of greed and irresponsibility on the part of some, but also our collective failure to make hard choices and prepare the nation for a new age.” He talked of how “the ways we use energy strengthen our adversaries and threaten our planet,” an implicit critique of an administration that went to war but did little to change America’s habits. When Mr. Obama turned to foreign policy, he had more implicit criticisms, noting that the Cold War was won “not just with missiles and tanks,” but by leaders who understood “that our power alone cannot protect us, nor does it entitle us to do as we please.” It grows instead, he said, “through its prudent use.” It was a message much of the world was waiting to hear. But it was matched with a warning to America’s enemies, especially terrorists and terror-sponsoring nations, that “you cannot outlast us, and we will defeat you.” It is that balance — the promise of an America that hews to its ideals, but achieves victory through silent strength — that will be the true test of Mr. Obama’s administration. It is a test yet to come, but one that begins today. Go to Home Page »
Business   The Future of Display Technologies. Advertisement Advertisement By DAVID POGUEJAN. 22, 2009 At the Consumer Electronics Show a couple weeks ago, I hosted a panel on future display technologies. There were five panelists--executives from Sharp, 3M, Corning, E-Ink and Mitsubishi. Frankly, I didn't choose the topic or the panelists, and I wasn't completely convinced that this session would be, you know, a laff riot. But these guys turned out to be compelling and entertaining speakers, and every single one of them obeyed my request to avoid jargon and buzzwords. Anyway, some takeaways: * O.L.E.D. is pronounced, by insiders, "OH-led." (I've been saying "O.L.E.D." all this time.) * O.L.E.D. stands for organic light-emitting diode. It's responsible for the shockingly fantastic picture on the $2,500, 11-inch Sony XEL-1. (You can read my review of it from last year at nytimes.com.) Advertisement * Yet despite all the fawning by the press (including me), O.L.E.D. is still years away from catching up to plasma or LCD. Corning's Pete Bocko guessed that decently sized (32-inch), reasonably priced O.L.E.D. TV screens won't reach the market until 2012 at the earliest; they're just too difficult to mass-produce at this point. * Meantime, Bruce Tripido, my Sharp panelist, maintained that LCD is only 50 percent evolved. That's right: even though LCD has made enormous strides, even though most of its traditional drawbacks have been eliminated, it's still reaching only half its potential in picture quality and other attributes. The other panelists concurred that LCD's continued improvements will make those tiny, expensive O.L.E.D. screens an even tougher sell in the marketplace. * E-Ink is the company that makes those extremely low-power, non-illuminated, grayscale displays on the Amazon Kindle, Sony Reader, and special newsstand editions of the December Esquire magazine. Sri Peruvemba made apt comparisons with the "living newspapers" featured in the "Harry Potter" movies, and showed a video of a color version of this technology working in the company's lab. So far, the color is pretty faded-looking, but they're working on it. Oddly (to me), the company still has no real competitors. Every e-book reader on the market uses E-Ink exclusively. * Those pocket pico projectors were everywhere at C.E.S. You can hook up your iPod to watch movies on a much bigger personal "screen," or load up your PowerPoint slides for instant presentations anywhere you can find a wall. After the panel, Steven Webster of 3M gave me a little demo of 3M's original pico projector side-by-side with its new, second-generation one. All I can say is, we have a lot to look forward to. The color on the second-gen projector was twice as vibrant and rich. (Incidentally, another showgoer was carrying around a working prototype of a cellphone with pico projector built right in. It was a bit bulkier than a regular cellphone, of course, but give it time.) * Frank DeMartin of Mitsubishi described laser-based projection TV screens, such as (no surprise) Mitsubishi's own LaserVue series. They reproduce a much larger range of color than plasma or LCD can, the brightness blows away even LCD, and blacks are super-black. (The reviews online back up these claims.) To top it off, laser TV's use about a quarter as much power as plasma or LCD. So why isn't everyone getting laser? First, because they're very expensive--Mistubishi's first one, the L65A90, goes for $7,000. Second, they're still projection TV sets, about 10 inches deep, so you can't exactly hang one on the wall. But give it time. If there's one phrase that could summarize every panelist's report, that'd be it: "Just you wait!" Go to Home Page »
Foreign   Jean Jadot, Papal Envoy, Dies at 99. Advertisement Advertisement By DOUGLAS MARTINJAN. 22, 2009 Archbishop Jean Jadot, the chief papal representative to the United States in the 1970s, who drew fire from conservative clergymen for pushing liberal reforms in the American church, died Wednesday in Brussels. He was 99. John A. Dick, his friend and biographer, announced the death. In 1973, Pope Paul VI sent Archbishop Jadot (pronounced zha-DOH) to Washington to serve as the apostolic delegate to the United States. The pope had plucked him from relative obscurity to press the American church to carry out the reforms of Vatican II, over whose final sessions the pope had presided. Pope Paul asked Archbishop Jadot “not to be the pope’s eyes and ears, but his heart,” Archbishop Jadot said in an interview with The London Tablet in 2002. He said the pope wanted him, as envoy, to show the pope’s concern “for the poor, the forgotten, the ignored.” Archbishop Jadot turned what had been a largely ceremonial position into a bully pulpit for the seven years ending in 1980. He helped lead a largely successful effort to push the American church to welcome minorities, widen the role of women, increase participation by the laity and relax some rules, like the penalty of excommunication for divorced Catholics who remarried without an annulment to the previous marriage and while the previous spouse was still alive. Advertisement Dr. Dick, a theologian, said Wednesday in an interview that the archbishop’s vision of the church was “a community of faith, not a hierarchical organization.” Bishops and other church leaders railed at what was seen as rabble-rousing by Archbishop Jadot, and he received a stream of anonymous hate mail. A close friend in Rome told him “they” were “out to get him,” Dr. Dick wrote online on Wednesday in The National Catholic Reporter. Archbishop Jadot submitted lists of three nominees for each opening as a bishop, as was customary. In almost all instances, Pope Paul VI chose the one nominee whom Archbishop Jadot indicated he preferred, Dr. Dick said. The result was that he was responsible for the appointments of more than 100 new bishops, Dr. Dick said. At one time, Dr. Dick said, more than a third of all American bishops were Archbishop Jadot’s choices. They were called “Jadot’s boys.” As a Washington Post article said in 1983: “Whatever their background, the new breed of bishops was less concerned with the ring-kissing and watered-silk vestments that went with the office, and more with getting to know their people. They moved out of episcopal mansions and into a couple of rooms in a rectory or seminary.” With time, conservative bishops appointed under the papacy of John Paul II largely replaced “Jadot’s boys.” But some critics still say that the church’s sex scandals are linked to appointments made by Archbishop Jadot, saying they were ill advised. Dr. Dick, who discussed the subject with Archbishop Jadot, responded in the interview that the scandals surprised and saddened the archbishop but that he accepted no blame for them. Advertisement Jean Jadot was born in Brussels on Nov. 23, 1909. His family was wealthy, and his father, Lambert, was a master engineer who built railroads, electrical systems and mines around the world. Jean earned his Ph.D. in philosophy from the Catholic University of Louvain in Belgium at age 21. He rebuffed his father’s pleas to lead a secular life and was ordained a priest in 1934. He became a pastor in a Brussels suburb and elsewhere in Belgium. From 1952 to 1960, he was chaplain to troops in what was then the Belgian Congo. He then worked as an official in the church’s missionary programs. In May 1968, he was ordained as a bishop. From 1968 to 1971, he was a papal delegate to Thailand and other countries in Southeast Asia. From 1971 to 1973, he filled this role in Cameroon, Gabon and Equatorial Guinea. In the spring of 1973, he accepted Pope Paul VI’s request to be his envoy to the United States. The pope told him he was chosen partly because he was not part of the Vatican bureaucracy, and thus might not be as pliable in the hands of powerful American bishops. Although Archbishop Jadot strongly adhered to most of the church’s teachings, including its opposition to abortion, his willingness to leave some questions, like artificial contraception, to individual consciences rankled some church leaders. But the pope refused an offer he made to resign, saying he was “doing just what I want you to do,” Dr. Dick wrote. Archbishop Jadot is survived by two sisters. In 1980, he was called back to the Vatican to help lead ecumenical initiatives. When he left, Robert L. Robinson, a member of the National Black Lay Catholic Caucus, said in an interview with The Washington Post: “Isn’t that a damn shame? The black people have lost a friend. He let us know that Rome was very much concerned about the black question.” Despite widespread speculation that he would be named a cardinal, it never happened. Then his successor, Archbishop Pio Laghi, who had appointed conservative bishops, was named a cardinal on May 29, 1991. That day, after lunch, Archbishop Jadot said to Dr. Dick, “It is a slap in my face.” An obituary on Jan. 22 about Archbishop Jean Jadot, the chief papal representative to the United States in the 1970s, misstated the penalty that divorced American Catholics were subject to under a Roman Catholic rule that Archbishop Jadot had sought to relax. The rule at the time called for excommunication if a divorced Catholic remarried without an annulment of the previous marriage and while the previous spouse was still alive; it did not excommunicate American Catholics simply for divorcing. (The penalty, which had existed only in the United States, was lifted by Pope Paul VI in 1977.) A version of this article appears in print on , on page A31 of the New York edition with the headline: Jean Jadot, Papal Envoy, Dies at 99. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Home   In New York, It’s ‘That Old Brownstone’. Advertisement Advertisement By PENELOPE GREENJAN. 21, 2009 In its 29 years on the air, “This Old House,” the PBS renovation program, has ventured beyond its Massachusetts roots to Miami, New Orleans and even Santa Barbara, but has studiously avoided New York City. Starting Jan. 22, though, the show will broadcast from Prospect Heights, Brooklyn, where Karen Shen and Kevin Costello (above, with their three young sons and contractor, Michael Streaman) are transforming a 19th-century brick row-house-turned-S.R.O. into a three-apartment dwelling. Ms. Shen and Mr. Costello bought the house last spring for $1.3 million and plan to defray their mortgage costs by renting out the top and garden floors; they will live on the parlor, second and third floors. Charles Lockwood, author of the row-house bible “Bricks and Brownstone: The New York Townhouse” (Rizzoli, 2003), appears on one of the episodes. “My first thought was, what took you so long?” he said. “More historic homes have been rediscovered and renovated in New York City than in any other location in the U.S.” Mr. Lockwood described Ms. Shen and Mr. Costello’s house as “a classic Renaissance Revival brownstone,” adding, “Huge swaths of Brooklyn were covered with such homes.” There may have been fancier houses in pre-Civil War neighborhoods, he said, “but what was exciting about the late-19th-century brownstones was the latest creature comforts, like modern kitchens and bathrooms, efficient central heating — and electricity.” The renovated house received windows from Andersen, some bath fixtures from Kohler and advice from what Deborah Hood, a producer, called “the brain trust” of the show’s team, including that amiable carpenter, Norm Abram. The first episode will be shown nationally on Jan. 22, but New Yorkers will have to wait until Jan. 24, when it will be shown at 7 p.m. on Channel 13; information: thisoldhouse.com. A version of this article appears in print on , on page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: In New York, It’s ‘That Old Brownstone’. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Movies   The Carpetbagger. Channels & Shows Home Search Culture Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Get behind the scenes of Hollywood’s awards season, with close-up looks at Oscar-nominated films and exclusive red-carpet access to the hottest actors, actresses and directors. Recent Episodes in The Carpetbagger The Carpetbagger Culture 3:34 Dressing ‘Inherent Vice’ The Carpetbagger Culture 3:01 Patricia Arquette Grows Into ‘Boyhood’ The Carpetbagger Culture 2:09 Sundance in Slow-Mo   Clothes and Character 2:56 Dressing the Hawkings   Clothes and Character 3:36 In ‘Selma,’ Trench Coats Amid Protests The Carpetbagger Culture 2:26 David Oyelowo and ‘Selma’ The Carpetbagger Culture 4:45 Common and John Legend Perform ‘Glory’ The Carpetbagger Culture 3:02 Patti Smith’s Cinematic Lullaby The Carpetbagger Culture 2:22 Big Eyes, Big Lies Show more videos from The Carpetbagger Most Popular 1 World A Dyeing Life 2 U.S. Copwatch vs. Cops: After Freddie Gray 3 Opinion Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics 4 Opinion I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked 5 U.S. Best of Obama's Correspondents' Dinner Speech 6 U.S. Haunted by Columbine 7 Opinion Manufacturing China’s Future 8 Opinion Fashion vs. Art 9 World Spinning Ice Circle in Russia 10 Food Coconut Cluster Granola © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Science   Clinic Closings, False Flu Symptoms and Physician-Owned Hospitals. Advertisement Advertisement By RONI CARYN RABINJAN. 22, 2009 Proposed Bill Would Restrict Doctor-Owned Hospitals A proposed federal bill to expand health coverage to low-income children could mean trouble for doctor-owned hospitals, The Wall Street Journal reports. The legislation would effectively stop construction of any new physician-owned hospital and hamper expansion of existing ones because of potential conflicts of interest. Carbon Monoxide Poisoning Often Confused With Flu, Agency Warns The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency is warning the elderly not to confuse carbon monoxide poisoning with the flu. Exposure to low levels of carbon monoxide can cause mild headaches and breathlessness, fatigue, irritability and nausea. Officials say the symptoms may be the result of gas poisoning if people feel better when they're out of the house, everyone in the house gets sick at the same time, pets are affected, and no victim has fever or swollen lymph nodes. Three Chinese Citizens Sentenced in Connection With Contaminated Milk China sentenced two men to death and a woman to life in jail for their roles in the tainted milk scandal, Reuters reports. The three were officials of the Sanlu Group, which sold milk products laced with melamine, leading to at least six deaths and making almost 300,000 children sick last year. Chicago Closing Mental Health Clinics Chicago is consolidating and closing outpatient mental health clinics in February to bridge a $1.2 million shortfall in funding, and mental health advocates fear the steps will have disastrous consequences for severely ill patients who depend on them, The Chicago Tribune reports. Europe Lags in Screening for Cancer Europe must double cancer screenings to prevent deaths as the population ages, the European Union's health commissioner said in a statement on Thursday, according to Reuters. Earlier goals for a minimum number of screenings, set in 2003, were not met, E.U. Health Commissioner Androulla Vassiliou said. Go to Home Page »
Sports   Ausmus Joins Dodgers. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content Skip to navigation View mobile version The New York Times Baseball|Ausmus Joins Dodgers Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Supported by Baseball | Sports Briefing | Baseball Ausmus Joins Dodgers By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSJAN. 22, 2009 Continue reading the main story Share This Page Continue reading the main story The veteran catcher Brad Ausmus and the Los Angeles Dodgers agreed on a one-year contract worth $1 million. A three-time Gold Glove winner, Ausmus spent the last eight seasons with Houston and batted .218 with 3 home runs and 24 runs batted in in 81 games last year. He will back up the All-Star catcher Russell Martin. ¶Omar Vizquel will go to spring training with the Texas Rangers, who want him to mentor the 20-year-old shortstop Elvis Andrus. An 11-time Gold Glove winner, Vizquel, 41, agreed to a minor league deal. viz A version of this brief appears in print on , on page B12 of the New York edition with the headline: Ausmus Joins Dodgers. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Continue reading the main story What's Next Loading... Go to Home Page » Site Index The New York Times Site Index Navigation News World U.S. Politics N.Y. Business Tech Science Health Sports Education Obituaries Today's Paper Corrections Opinion Today's Opinion Op-Ed Columnists Editorials Contributing Writers Op-Ed Contributors Opinionator Letters Sunday Review Taking Note Room for Debate Public Editor Video: Opinion Arts Today's Arts Art & Design ArtsBeat Books Dance Movies Music N.Y.C. Events Guide Television Theater Video: Arts Living Automobiles Crossword Food Education Fashion & Style Health Jobs Magazine N.Y.C. Events Guide Real Estate T Magazine Travel Weddings & Celebrations Listings & More Classifieds Tools & Services Times Topics Public Editor N.Y.C. Events Guide Blogs Multimedia Photography Video NYT Store Times Journeys Subscribe Manage My Account Subscribe Subscribe Times Insider Home Delivery Digital Subscriptions NYT Opinion Crossword Email Newsletters Alerts Gift Subscriptions Corporate Subscriptions Education Rate Mobile Applications Replica Edition International New York Times Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Technology   While You Were Out: Apple’s Years With and Without Steve Jobs. Subscribe Now Subscribe campaign: inyt2015_bar1_digi_usd_4L9UF -- 277474, creative: inyt2015_bar1_digi_buttononly_usd_4L9UF -- 406560, page: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/technology/20090122_JOBS.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/technology, position: Bar1 Log In Register Now Help Home Page Today's Paper Video Most Popular Times Topics Search All NYTimes.com Business Day Technology World U.S. N.Y. / Region Business Technology Science Health Sports Opinion Arts Style Travel Jobs Real Estate Autos Sign In to E-Mail UPDATED October 5, 2011 While You Were Out: Apple’s Years With and Without Steve Jobs Sam Grobart reviews Steven P. Jobs’s time at Apple. In order to view this feature, you must download the latest version of flash player here. Danielle Belopotosky and Sam Grobart/The New York Times | Send Feedback Home World U.S. N.Y. / Region Business Technology Science Health Sports Opinion Arts Style Travel Jobs Real Estate Autos Site Map © 2012 The New York Times Company Privacy Your Ad Choices Terms of Service Terms of Sale Corrections RSS Help Contact Us Work for Us Advertise campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_personalized_isEDU_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/technology/20090122_JOBS.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/technology, position: Inv1
Washington   Text: Statement of Dennis C. Blair. Advertisement Advertisement JAN. 22, 2009 Statement of Dennis C. Blair before The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence United States Senate January 22, 2009 Madam Chairman, Mr. Vice Chairman, Members of the Committee: It is a distinct honor and privilege to appear before you today. I am also honored that President Obama has placed his trust and confidence in me, deciding to nominate me to the position of Director of National Intelligence. I want to express deep appreciation and thanks to Chairman Feinstein, and to Vice Chairman Bond, for holding today's hearing, and I look forward to your questions. In addition, let me say from the outset, if confirmed, I look forward very much to working with you on the many important issues before the Intelligence Community, and before the Nation. This Committee has a wealth of experience and wisdom. If confirmed, I will seek your counsel and advice – and seek it frequently – in addressing the many challenges ahead. Importance of Intelligence Nothing is more important to national security and the making and conduct of good policy than timely, accurate, and relevant intelligence. Nothing is more critical to accurate and relevant intelligence than independent analysis. The President has made clear to me, and to the American people, that he wants to hear the facts, he expects independent analysis, and he wants to hear all points of view. Advertisement As John Adams famously said, "Facts are stubborn things." The best national security decisions take account of the facts on the ground. Sometimes those facts are unpleasant; sometimes they are inconvenient; often they are ambiguous. Whatever they are, they must be presented accurately and fully. Beyond the facts on the ground, interpretations of their significance differ. There is an obligation to bring those differing views forward. There is an obligation to speak truth to power. If confirmed, I will fulfill that obligation personally, and I will instill respect for that obligation in those who work for me. Threats and Opportunities Let me describe some of the key challenges the intelligence services face in supporting policymakers as well as troops, diplomats, and law enforcement officials in the field. The Intelligence Community is charged with the task of assessing threats and providing timely warning. This Committee holds an annual worldwide threat assessment hearing. If I am confirmed, it will be my privilege to appear before you on that topic. The United States is engaged in three campaigns in which there are immediate threats to American lives, properties and interests. First is the campaign against anti-American terrorists with global reach who seek to harm us or our allies, partners and friends. These groups include al-Qaeda and other extremist organizations as well as the groups they inspire but do not control. The second campaign is in Iraq and the third in Afghanistan, where the United States has deployed troops, diplomats, and nation builders. Providing intelligence support for these three campaigns consumes the largest share of Intelligence Community resources. The day-to-day demands for tactical intelligence for these missions, geographically concentrated in Southwest Asia, cannot be allowed to crowd out the mission of building a deeper understanding of the complicated interlocking dynamics of the entire region, from Kashmir to Istanbul. We will need that understanding as we forge a strategy for the region. Additional near-term issues of concern are many. They include North Korea's nuclear weapons and missile programs; Iran's nuclear capabilities and intentions, as well as its missile program; the security of Pakistan's nuclear arsenal; and peace and stability in South Asia. They include Israeli-Palestinian violence, with its possibilities for escalation and implications for regional stability. Many important threats to American national security go well beyond the traditional nation-state-based threats of the past. The intelligence services need to have open minds, change traditional ways of thinking and be bold and creative in identifying possible threats to the nation. It is the responsibility of the intelligence services to penetrate and understand these new transnational threats just as thoroughly as we did the Soviet Union in the days of the Cold War. In addition to anti-American terrorists with global reach, our adversaries include organizations – some nation states, some private and some criminal – that proliferate weapons of mass destruction and the means to deliver them. Advertisement They include organizations trafficking in drugs. They include those using the global communications system to learn our secrets and proprietary information to compete with us or attack us. There are additional trends that affect American security, and may pose grave dangers – global warming, energy supplies, food prices, and pandemic diseases, among others. Today's threats to American interests are more diffuse, more fast-paced, and seem more urgent than ever because of the trends of globalization – worldwide transportation, worldwide information systems, the spread of scientific and technical knowledge, an interlocking global economy, and the ubiquitous and incessant news cycle. The intelligence agencies must look beneath the breathless headlines to understand the facts and their significance for American interests. The Intelligence Community also needs to address the longer-term geopolitical challenges. How the United States adjusts to and manages the growing power and influence of China, India, and key countries in the developing world is a major long-term challenge for policymakers. The Industrial Revolution caused a centuries-long shift in power to the West; globalization is now shifting the balance again. The Global Trends 2025 report is one example of the Intelligence Community's contribution to this discussion. Failing states pose another set of challenges. Countries without effective governments, with internal economic disparities, and with domestic religious, ethnic, or tribal tensions can slip into anarchy, with tragic consequences for their own citizens, and with potential dangers to other countries. Somalia is one example, among many. Advertisement The Intelligence Community has global responsibilities. We need to understand better the interplay of trends, threats, and opportunities in Latin America and Africa, so that our leaders can forge wise policies and take effective actions as the importance of these regions increases. Identifying opportunities as well as threats is an extremely important balance for intelligence agencies to strike. -- While the United States must hunt down those terrorists who are seeking to do us harm, the Intelligence Community also needs to support policymakers who are looking for opportunities to engage and work with Arab and Muslim leaders who are striving for a progressive and peaceful future for their religion and their countries; Advertisement -- While the United States must understand China's military buildup – its extent, its technological sophistication and its vulnerabilities – in order to offset it, the Intelligence Community also needs to support policymakers who are looking for opportunities to work with Chinese leaders who believe that Asia is big enough for both of us and can be an Asia in which both countries can benefit as well as contribute to the common good; -- While the United States needs to understand Russia's military plans and ambitions in what it calls its "near abroad," the Intelligence Community also needs to help policymakers understand the dynamics of European security issues including the actions of our allies and friends, in order to craft policies that will support American objectives. -- While the United States must identify weak places in worldwide medical surveillance systems and prepare for pandemics, the Intelligence Community can also find opportunities to work with governments and other organizations on behalf of our common interest in strengthening the world's early-warning, defensive and recovery systems; -- While policymakers need to understand anti-American leaders, policies and actions in Iran, the Intelligence Community can also help policymakers identify and understand other leaders and political forces, so that it is possible to work toward a future in both our interests; -- While traditional friends of the United States disagree with individual American policies on specific countries and issues, the Intelligence Community can also help policymakers identify the many government leaders and influential private leaders – in Europe, in Asia and elsewhere – who share American ambitions for the future and are willing to work together for the common good. Identifying these opportunities for American policy and statecraft is as important as predicting hostile threats. There is a final cluster of subjects on which intelligence agencies must provide good advice to policymakers and officials taking action: -- Science and technology developments – where is innovation taking place around the world, and how can it help or hurt American interests? Advertisement -- Economics and finance – how is power being redistributed, and what are the developments that will make a difference to the United States? For these areas, and also for many of the others outlined here, the analysts and information in our intelligence agencies are not the sole, and often not the best, resources. Private organizations – businesses as well as consultants – think tanks, NGOs, universities, national labs, federally funded research and development centers, other government analysts, and similar international and foreign centers have a great deal to offer. It is the responsibility of the Director of National Intelligence to take advantage of outside information sources – databases and experts – and to add the insights gained from secret intelligence to present policymakers the clearest possible picture of the nature of these trends, and the potential effects that alternative American policies can have on them. The Role and Responsibilities of the DNI The office of the DNI is not yet four years old. Ambassador Negroponte and Admiral McConnell have made important progress during that period of time. A wider range of analysis, and more points of view, are now brought to the attention of policymakers. Information sharing on terrorism-related information has improved. Joint Duty in the Intelligence Community, essential for building a unified workforce, is starting to take hold. Security clearances take less time. These are important contributions, and they should be recognized. At the same time, the Committee knows that much work lies ahead. For my part, I want to acknowledge the contributions that those who lead the Intelligence Community already have made. The 2004 Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act spells out the role and responsibilities of the DNI. The Act specifies many important improvements in the organization and functioning of the country's intelligence services. My approach is a straightforward one. If confirmed, I will work to fulfill the intent of this legislation. The DNI is the principal adviser to the President, to the National Security Council, and the Homeland Security Council for intelligence matters related to the national security. His responsibility is to provide timely, accurate and relevant intelligence. Leading the Intelligence Community, the DNI needs to satisfy the strategic intelligence requirements of policymakers as well as the tactical requirements of military units, diplomats, and front-line officers of the Department of Homeland Security and state and local law officials. The DNI needs to lead the integration of intelligence sources – human, signals, geospatial, measurement and signature, and open source. Such integration mutually empowers, and maximizes, the contribution of each intelligence source. The DNI needs to ensure that the whole of the national intelligence enterprise is always more than the sum of its parts. I believe the hardworking, smart, and dedicated officials of the intelligence agencies, along with the resources the Congress has provided, are adequate to provide the right kind and amount of intelligence support to all who need it from the President down to the soldier in the field. The DNI should place the emphasis on managing others, not doing their work himself. The DNI should hold agencies accountable for doing their jobs, but should not replicate activities that individual agencies perform well. The DNI should concentrate on activities that no single agency can perform by itself, and use his authority to encourage and enforce combined action that brings together the strengths of all the intelligence services to accomplish the common missions. Advertisement The DNI must keep the Intelligence Community at the cutting edge of innovation. The business of intelligence has been radically transformed, and continues to be driven, by the information revolution. In a generation's time, the Intelligence Community has gone from an organization hunting secrets, to an organization interpreting the vast ocean of information available every day – even as it still hunts secrets. How the Community collects, analyzes and provides added value to policymakers and operators is profoundly affected by this changing and dynamic information environment. Developing a high-quality workforce for the future is the DNI's responsibility. Any organization is only as good as its people. I have been deeply impressed over many years with the many smart, dedicated and brave professionals in the Intelligence Community workforce. It is the DNI's responsibility to give them the right missions, to clear away obstacles in their path, and then it is the DNI's privilege and pleasure to watch them produce amazing results. It has been an honor to work with them, and, if I am confirmed, it will be an honor to lead them. The Role of Intelligence in a Democracy All officers of the Intelligence Community, and especially its most senior officer, must conduct themselves in a manner that earns and retains the public trust. The American people are uncomfortable with government activities that do not take place in the open, subject to public scrutiny and review. Unlike many other parts of the government, the activities of intelligence officers must often be secret to be effective. Therefore, there is a special obligation for the leadership of the Intelligence Community to communicate frequently and candidly with the oversight committees, and as much as possible with the American people. There is a need for transparency and accountability in a mission where most work necessarily remains hidden from public view. The first part of building trust is building relationships. I want to establish a relationship of candor and trust with each Member of this Committee and, if confirmed, work to sustain and enhance that trust. Equally important, I will work to rebuild a relationship of trust with the American people. The second part of building trust is to carry out the mission of the Intelligence Community in a manner consistent with our Nation's values, consistent with our Constitution and consistent with the rule of law. The intelligence agencies of the United States must respect the privacy and civil liberties of the American people, and they must adhere to the rule of law.  Lawful Surveillance, Lawful Detention and Interrogation In a dangerous world, government agencies need authority to collect intelligence on terrorists before they strike, in order to protect the American people. But in a free society, that authority cannot be unlimited. It must be exercised pursuant to law. I do not and will not support any surveillance activities that circumvent established processes for their lawful authorization. I believe in the importance of review and regulation of the use of those surveillance authorities. I believe in the importance of independent monitoring, including by the Congress, to prevent abuses and protect civil liberties. Advertisement I believe strongly that torture is not moral, legal, or effective. Any program of detention and interrogation must comply with the Geneva Conventions, the Conventions on Torture, and the Constitution. There must be clear standards for humane treatment that apply to all agencies of U.S. Government, including the Intelligence Community. I believe the U.S. Government must have clear and consistent standards for treatment of detainees. Those standards must comply with the Detainee Treatment Act, the Convention Against Torture, and Common Article 3 of the Geneva Conventions. All who are responsible for treatment of detainees must receive training on those standards, and training must be reinforced regularly. It is not enough to set a standard and announce it. Regular reinforcement and oversight is necessary to make sure the standards are being applied correctly. I agree with the President that the detention center at Guantanamo has become a damaging symbol to the world and that it must be closed. It is a rallying cry for terrorist recruitment and harmful to our national security, so closing it is important for our national security. The guiding principles for closing the center should be protecting our national security, respecting the Geneva Conventions and the rule of law, and respecting the existing institutions of justice in this country. I also believe we should revitalize efforts to transfer detainees to their countries of origin or other countries whenever that would be consistent with these principles. Closing this center and satisfying these principles will take time, and is the work of many departments and agencies. Conclusion Madam Chairman, Vice Chairman, and Members of the Committee: If confirmed, I will work closely with this Committee and with the Congress. The leadership of the Intelligence Community must earn and sustain the confidence and support of this Committee if it is to win the confidence and support of the American people. A close dialogue and relationship with the Congress is what our Constitution and laws require, and what is practical and necessary. Your wisdom, sustained interest, and sustained engagement enhance our Nation's intelligence capabilities. I look forward to your questions. Go to Home Page »
Arts   China's Underground Hip-Hop Movement. Channels & Shows Home Search Culture Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Culture China's Underground Hip-Hop Movement By Jimmy Wang | Jan. 23, 2009 | 3:47 Underground Chinese hip-hop, which is growing in popularity among students and working-class Chinese, is a profitless, and often subversive, activity for its practitioners. Show More PlaylistUp Next in Culture Next → This Week’s Movies Culture3:28 This Week’s Movies | May 6, 2016   U.S.0:22 Obama, Dancing With the Star (Wars)   Opinion6:58 Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics   Fashion1:13 Red Carpet Arrivals at the Met Ball   Culture3:07 Tony Nominations Are Announced This Week’s Movies Culture3:28 This Week’s Movies | April 29, 2016 Anatomy of a Scene Culture2:41 Anatomy | ‘The Man Who Knew Infinity’   Europe0:29 Big Ben to Be Silenced   Food1:12 Tomatillo Pineapple Salsa | Taste Makers   Taste Makers6:01 Nigerian Food, Crash-and-Burn Style | Taste Makers © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Business   Possibly on Sale at Barneys: Barneys. Advertisement Advertisement By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOMJAN. 23, 2009 THE owners of Barneys New York are doing all they can to move merchandise these days, but soon they could top themselves. The luxury chain itself may end up for sale, possibly at a bargain-bin price. Istithmar, the private equity firm from Dubai that owns Barneys, is considering selling the retailer, according to people with knowledge of the company, who emphasized that the situation was fluid and that no deal was imminent. Bloomberg News first reported the potential sale. David Jackson, chief executive of Istithmar, declined to comment about whether the chain was or would be for sale in the future. Barneys was bought by Istithmar in 2007 for $942 million after a fierce bidding war with Fast Retailing, the Japanese clothing conglomerate that owns the Uniqlo specialty clothing chain. That was at the peak of a private equity buying binge, when investors snapped up chains like Lord & Taylor, Toys “R” Us and Neiman Marcus for record prices. Istithmar’s purchase of Barneys left the chain, which has nearly 40 stores and outlets, burdened by heavy debt and weakened credit. Barneys, based in New York, was relying on sales from new store openings to pay the interest on that debt, analysts at Moody’s Investors Service said. But when the economy soured and consumers stopped buying anything but necessities, Barneys — along with its luxury retailing peers — was hit hard. Advertisement Sales fell by double digits in December, a critical month for retailers, at both Saks and Neiman Marcus, two other luxury chains. Barneys does not report sales figures but Moody’s said sales at stores open at least a year, a measure of retail health, were negative for the chain. Like most retailers these days, Barneys has been forced to discount merchandise heavily, eroding its profit margin. Recent promotions have offered merchandise at a 75 percent discount. Retailing analysts say the Barneys brand has a lot of cachet. But cachet is not the same as cash. In November, Moody’s downgraded Barneys credit ratings, citing deteriorating business conditions. Additionally, the company has been trying to endure a recession without a chief. The former president and chief executive, Howard Socol, resigned in July and has yet to be replaced. People knowledgeable about the company said Barneys would probably fetch $300 million to $400 million now, considerably less than the $942 million Istithmar paid. Istithmar — “investment” in Arabic — is an investment arm of the Dubai government. “The price they paid is fantasyland given what is happening now,” one of these people said. For the last few years, fashion-conscious shoppers with money or credit to burn were more than willing to buy $300 T-shirts at the chic retailer. But no more. For the overall retail industry, sales of luxury goods fell 27.6 percent in December compared with December 2007, according to SpendingPulse, a report by MasterCard Advisors that estimates sales from all forms of payment, including credit cards and cash. That is worse than the performance of other categories like electronics and appliances, though all were down as consumers retrenched amid the economic gloom. A version of this article appears in print on , on page B5 of the New York edition with the headline: Possibly On Sale At Barneys: Barneys. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Foreign   Spain: Fake Dalís Seized, With Some Real Ones. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content Skip to navigation View mobile version The New York Times Europe|Spain: Fake Dalís Seized, With Some Real Ones Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Supported by Europe | World Briefing | Europe Spain: Fake Dalís Seized, With Some Real Ones By VICTORIA BURNETTJAN. 23, 2009 Continue reading the main story Share This Page Continue reading the main story The Spanish police have confiscated dozens of stolen and fake works of art purported to be by Salvador Dalí. A total of 81 pieces were seized last week in Estepona, where an unidentified French man, who was later arrested, was running a sale, a police spokesman said. The pieces included 12 that may be genuine works by Dalí and are similar to works listed as having been stolen, the official said. A version of this brief appears in print on , on page A11 of the New York edition with the headline: Spain: Fake Dalís Seized, With Some Real Ones. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Continue reading the main story What's Next Loading... Go to Home Page » Site Index The New York Times Site Index Navigation News World U.S. Politics N.Y. Business Tech Science Health Sports Education Obituaries Today's Paper Corrections Opinion Today's Opinion Op-Ed Columnists Editorials Contributing Writers Op-Ed Contributors Opinionator Letters Sunday Review Taking Note Room for Debate Public Editor Video: Opinion Arts Today's Arts Art & Design ArtsBeat Books Dance Movies Music N.Y.C. Events Guide Television Theater Video: Arts Living Automobiles Crossword Food Education Fashion & Style Health Jobs Magazine N.Y.C. Events Guide Real Estate T Magazine Travel Weddings & Celebrations Listings & More Classifieds Tools & Services Times Topics Public Editor N.Y.C. Events Guide Blogs Multimedia Photography Video NYT Store Times Journeys Subscribe Manage My Account Subscribe Subscribe Times Insider Home Delivery Digital Subscriptions NYT Opinion Crossword Email Newsletters Alerts Gift Subscriptions Corporate Subscriptions Education Rate Mobile Applications Replica Edition International New York Times Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Science   New C.D.C. Leadership, Magical Budgets and a Disturbing Infection. Advertisement Advertisement By RONI CARYN RABINJAN. 23, 2009 C.D.C. Acting Director Chosen The Obama administration has appointed Dr. Richard Besser acting director of the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, The Wall Street Journal says. Dr. Besser, 49, is a pediatrician with expertise in disaster preparedness and infectious disease; he will succeed Dr. Julie Gerberding. Few Laid-Off Workers Can Afford Company Health Plans Only one in 10 laid-off workers retained their employer's health insurance coverage after losing their jobs, a study by The Commonwealth Fund reports. Federal Cobra regulations permit unemployed workers to keep their former employer's insurance plan for a limited time, but premiums can be so expensive that they are beyond the reach of many people without jobs. Payments range from $4,704 to $12,680 for a family. Report: V.A. Producing Unrealistic Annual Budgets The U.S. Veterans Administration continues to underestimate its budget each year in an attempt to keep spending down. A Government Accountability Office report to be released today finds the V.A.'s long-term budget for rehabilitation in nursing homes and other centers understates costs by millions of dollars, The Associated Press reports. Faulty Tests Led to Overestimate of West Nile Infections States overestimated the numbers of West Nile virus cases they had last year because of faulty testing kits, USA Today reports. C.D.C. officials say the kits were made by Inverness Medical Innovations of Waltham, Mass. Man in Philippines Infected With Type of Ebola A Philippine pig farm worker has tested positive for Ebola-Reston virus. The World Health Organization says the strain is different from the Ebola found in Africa that causes hemorrhagic fever. The worker has no signs of illness, and it is not clear whether he was infected by pigs, AFP reports. Go to Home Page »
Sports   W. Virginia Topples Georgetown. Advertisement Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSJAN. 23, 2009 Da’Sean Butler scored 27 points and a relentless West Virginia defense forced 19 turnovers in a 75-58 upset at No. 12 Georgetown on Thursday night. The Mountaineers (14-4, 3-2 Big East) shot 58 percent in the second half and held the Hoyas (12-5, 3-3) to 33 percent shooting after the break. Georgetown again had trouble rebounding, allowing 16 points on West Virginia’s 14 offensive rebounds. U.C.L.A. 61, WASHINGTON ST. 59 Nikola Dragovic scored 20 points and No. 13 U.C.L.A. (15-3, 5-1 Pacific 10) hung on for its 16th straight victory at Washington State (11-7, 3-3). CINCINNATI 71, ST. JOHN’S 60 Deonta Vaughn scored 23 points, including the first 10 in Cincinnati’s late 17-2 run, and the Bearcats (13-7, 3-4 Big East) won at St. John’s (10-8, 1-5). PURDUE 70, MINNESOTA 62 Behind 19 points from JaJuan Johnson, No. 18 Purdue (15-4, 4-2 Big Ten) earned a victory at No. 21 Minnesota. Al Nolen had 17 points on 3-for-14 shooting for the Gophers (16-3, 4-3). Advertisement BUTLER 68, WIS.-GREEN BAY 59 Matt Howard scored 15 points and No. 16 Butler (17-1, 8-0 Horizon League) rallied to win at home. Rahmon Fletcher scored 22 points for Wisconsin-Green Bay (14-6, 6-2). IN OTHER GAMES Jeff Xavier had 20 points as visiting Providence (13-6, 5-2 Big East) held off Seton Hall (9-9, 0-6) in overtime, 98-93. ... Alex Nunner scored the last 11 points for Monmouth to lift the Hawks (6-14, 4-4 Northeast Conference) to a 74-73 victory at home over Long Island University (9-9, 5-3). ... Jamaal Womack scored 17 points and St. Francis of Brooklyn (5-13, 3-5 NEC) snapped a three-game losing streak with a 65-62 victory over visiting Wagner (10-8, 3-5). Women GA. TECH 66, N. CAROLINA 62 Alex Montgomery had 17 points as host Georgia Tech (14-4, 2-2 A.C.C.) upset No. 2 North Carolina (17-2, 3-1). IN OTHER GAMES No. 6 Auburn (19-0, 4-0 SEC) beat visiting Alabama (12-8, 0-5), 84-66. ... Coach Pat Summitt won her 998th career game as No. 10 Tennessee (15-3, 4-1 SEC) held off host Arkansas (11-8, 0-4), 76-67. A version of this article appears in print on , on page B11 of the New York edition with the headline: W. Virginia Topples Georgetown. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Travel   A Weekend in Carmel-by-the-Sea. Subscribe Now Subscribe campaign: inyt2015_bar1_digi_usd_4L9UF -- 277474, creative: inyt2015_bar1_digi_buttononly_usd_4L9UF -- 406560, page: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/travel/0125-carmel.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/travel, position: Bar1 Log In Register Now Help More Slide Shows Travel Search Slide Shows All Multimedia » Close A Weekend in Carmel-by-the-Sea « Previous 1 of 15 Next » Sign In to E-Mail Once a bohemian outpost for folks like Jack London, Carmel today is prime real estate, and the surrounding valley is abuzz with top-notch restaurants, boutique wineries and precious shops. Point Lobos State Reserve, left, offers a wild, majestic landscape laced with 14 meandering trails. Credit: Kike Arnal for The New York Times Related Article: 36 Hours in Carmel-by-the-Sea Travel Guide: Carmel Home Travel © 2011 The New York Times Company Privacy Policy Your Ad Choices Contact Us Help Work for Us Site Map campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_personalized_isEDU_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/travel/0125-carmel.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/travel, position: Inv1
U.S.   U.S.. U.S. Search slide shows All Multimedia » next 1 of 7 A Drug War Across the River Sign In to E-Mail Edith Escobedo waited for a bus to her home in Ciudad Juárez, Mexico, a trip she fears. Juárez, which has always been dangerous, has become a battleground for drug cartels. El Paso, where many Juárez residents work, is one of the safest cities in the United States. Photo: Michael Stravato for The New York Times related Article: Two Sides of a Border: One Violent, One Peaceful Home U.S. Log In Register Now Copyright   The New York Times Company Privacy Policy Contact Us Help Work for Us Site Map campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_personalized_isEDU_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/slideshow/yr/mo/day/us/0123-ELPASO_index.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/slideshow/yr/mo/day/us, position: Inv1
Washington   Politics Obama Orders Secret Prisons and Detention Camps Closed. President Obama signed executive orders Thursday directing the Central Intelligence Agency to shut what remains of its network of secret prisons and ordering the closing of the Guantánamo detention camp within a year. WASHINGTON  Saying that “our ideals give us the strength and moral high ground” to combat terrorism, President Obama signed executive orders Thursday ending the Central Intelligence Agency’s secret overseas prisons, banning coercive interrogation methods and closing the Guantánamo Bay detention camp within a year. The latest on President Obama, the new administration and other news from Washington and around the nation. Join the discussion. But even as he reversed the most disputed counterterrorism policies of the Bush years, Mr. Obama postponed for at least six months difficult decisions on the details. He ordered a cabinet-level review of the most challenging questions his administration faces  what to do with dangerous prisoners who cannot be tried in American courts; whether some interrogation methods should remain secret to keep Al Qaeda from training to resist them; and how the United States can make sure prisoners transferred to other countries will not be tortured. As Mr. Obama signed three orders in a White House ceremony, 16 retired generals and admirals who have fought for months for a ban on coercive interrogations stood behind him and applauded. The group, organized to lobby the Obama transition team by the group Human Rights First, did not include any career C.I.A. officers or retirees. “We intend to win this fight,” Mr. Obama said, “We are going to win it on our own terms.” One of Mr. Obama’s orders requires the C.I.A. to use only the 19 interrogation methods outlined in the Army Field Manual, ending President Bush’s policy of permitting the agency to use some secret methods that went beyond those allowed for military interrogators. “We believe we can abide by a rule that says, we don’t torture, but we can effectively obtain the intelligence we need,” Mr. Obama said. The orders, and Mr. Obama’s televised statement, marked an abrupt break with the Bush administration. Critics for years have accused Mr. Bush of permitting torture and damaging the country’s moral standing in the world, while Dick Cheney, the former president and vice president, insisted that all their programs were lawful and had prevented a repeat of the Sept. 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. John D. Hutson, a retired admiral and law school dean, was at the signing ceremony “He really gets it,” Mr. Hutson said of Mr. Obama in an interview a few minutes after the ceremony. “He acknowledged that this isn’t easy. But he is absolutely dedicated to getting us back on track as a nation. This is the right thing to do morally, diplomatically, militarily and Constitutionally. But it also makes us safer.” Democrats in Congress and human rights groups largely hailed Mr. Obama’s moves, while some Republicans said they were unrealistic. Representative Peter Hoekstra of Michigan, the top Republican on the House Intelligence Committee, said the decision to close Guantánamo by a year from now “places hope ahead of reality  it sets an objective without a plan to get there.” He said that in briefings for Congress on Wednesday, administration officials “could not answer questions as to what they will do with any new jihadists or enemy combatants that we capture.” “What are we to do with these people, bring them to the very place they hoped to attack: The United States? What do we do with confessed 9/11 mastermind Khalid Sheikh Mohammed and his fellow terrorist conspirators, offer them jail cells in American communities?” By contrast, Sen. John Kerry, the Massachusetts Democrat and chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, said, “Today is a great day for the rule of law in the United States of America,” adding: “America is ready to lead again  not just with our words, but by our example.” Mr. Obama’s order closing Guantánamo assigns the attorney general to lead a review of what should happen to the remaining detainees and does not rule out the possibility of trying some of them using military commissions, as has the Bush administration, though possibly with different procedures. One task force, with the attorney general and secretary of defense as co-chairmen, will study detainee policy and report to the president in six months. A second task force, led by the attorney general, and with the secretary of defense and director of national intelligence as vice co-chairs, will study whether the Army Field Manual should remain the only standard for interrogators and review the practice of extraordinary rendition, in which captured terrorist suspects are transferred to other countries. One more order directed a high-level review of the case of Ali Saleh Kahlah al-Marri, a suspected terrorist  Mr. Obama called him “dangerous”  who is currently being held in a military jail in South Carolina. The new White House counsel, Gregory B. Craig, briefed lawmakers about some elements of the orders on Wednesday evening. A Congressional official who attended the session said Mr. Craig acknowledged concerns from intelligence officials that new restrictions on C.I.A. methods might be unwise and indicated that the White House might be open to allowing the use of methods other the 19 techniques allowed for the military. But the executive order on interrogations is certain to be received with some skepticism at the C.I.A., which for years has maintained that the military’s interrogation rules are insufficient to get information from senior Qaeda figures like Khalid Sheikh Mohammed. The Bush administration asserted that the harsh interrogation methods were instrumental in gaining valuable intelligence on Qaeda operations. The intelligence agency built a network of secret prisons in 2002 to house and interrogate senior Qaeda figures captured overseas. The exact number of suspects to have moved through the prisons is unknown, although Michael V. Hayden, the departing director of the agency, has in the past put the number at “fewer than 100.” The secret detentions brought international condemnation, and in September 2006, Mr. Bush ordered that the remaining 14 detainees in C.I.A. custody be transferred to Guantánamo Bay and tried by military tribunals. But Mr. Bush made clear then that he was not shutting down the C.I.A. detention system, and in the last two years, two Qaeda operatives are believed to have been detained in agency prisons for several months each before being sent to Guantánamo. A government official said Mr. Obama’s order on the C.I.A. would still allow its officers abroad to temporarily detain terrorism suspects and transfer them to other agencies, but would no longer allow the agency to carry out long-term detentions. William Glaberson contributed reporting from New York. Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers. New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse.
Business   As Mergers and Other Work Dry Up, Bankruptcy Becomes Lawyers’ Oasis. Advertisement Advertisement By JONATHAN D. GLATERJAN. 23, 2009 There sure do seem to be a lot of bankruptcy lawyers around these days. Law firms, scrambling to keep up with changing client needs in a weakening economy, are rushing to pump up their bankruptcy departments by shifting around staff and having lawyers study up on restructuring, as more people abandon the big deals of boom times to take on desperate negotiations of companies on the brink. At some firms, seasoned bankruptcy partners hold seminars and host brown bag lunches to introduce Chapter 11 proceedings to associates more accustomed to carefully planned mergers than to corporate fire sales. Some firms have poached bankruptcy experts from rivals in a bid to bolster business and to bring in a source of knowledge for lawyers new to dark times. “What firms are trying to do here is provide some ability to people to move,” said Bradford W. Hildebrandt, president of Hildebrandt International, a consulting firm that often advises law firms. “Frankly they’re trying to avoid layoffs.” The shifts happen less frequently at the level of partners. Partners command higher prices and clients may be unwilling to pay those prices when the partner is just learning the details of bankruptcy law. And the most experienced and sought-after advisers are the ones with a range of experience across different areas of law, several lawyers said. “The people who are most successful are the counselors, who know a little bit about everything,” Said Kenneth A. Lefkowitz, a partner at Hughes Hubbard & Reed in New York. But for the more junior lawyers being shifted around, working on bankruptcy matters should help them become advisers to corporate chiefs, said Douglas P. Bartner, head of the bankruptcy group at Shearman & Sterling in New York. Advertisement “We are adding proportionately more junior lawyers to the bankruptcy area than we did before,” he said. In addition, he said, over the last year senior lawyers who have had some bankruptcy experience have also held regular, informal meetings to discuss restructuring cases, so that when they need to be pulled into a restructuring case, they are up to speed. A greater number of junior lawyers also want to work on bankruptcy cases, said Richard F. Hahn, co-chairman of the bankruptcy practice at Debevoise & Plimpton. Young lawyers might have more opportunities to learn in a division that is growing, as the bankruptcy area is. “They want to be where the action is,” Mr. Hahn said. (They may also want to hang onto their jobs, Mr. Hildebrandt noted, by keeping busy.) In November, Kirkland & Ellis, a law firm known for its bankruptcy practice, held the first in a series of seminars for its lawyers on restructuring issues, said Richard M. Cieri, a partner in the firm’s New York office. “We know there’s going to be continuing need for additional capacity,” Mr. Cieri said. The firm has more than 100 lawyers in its bankruptcy group, making it one of the biggest in the country, but the current downturn means the firm may need to tap more of its people, he said. In some cases law firms have hired bankruptcy lawyers from rivals to add to their mix of offerings. Earlier this month, Greenberg Traurig announced that it had successfully lured away Bruce Zirinsky and John Bae, senior bankruptcy lawyers at Cadwalader Wickersham & Taft. “The addition of Bruce and John is particularly exciting now, with the challenges in the U.S. and global marketplaces and the need for major law firms to adjust rapidly to change,” said Richard A. Rosenbaum, president of Greenberg Traurig, in a statement at the time. But law firms rushing to expand their bankruptcy practices face certain risks. If a firm hires or trains too many lawyers in a restructuring department, for example, it might find itself lacking people to handle securities offerings and mergers when the economy recovers while at the same time paying bankruptcy experts with nothing to do. “The great challenge is coping with supply and demand and revenue expense,” said Ralph Baxter, chairman of Orrick Herrington & Sutcliffe. “You can’t overdose on one thing, and you can’t simply — because something has turned down today — abandon it, if odds are it’s going to be back.” A version of this article appears in print on , on page B4 of the New York edition with the headline: As Mergers and Other Work Dry Up, Bankruptcy Becomes Lawyers’ Oasis. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Foreign   Swiss Release Suspect in Nuclear Case. Advertisement Advertisement By WILLIAM J. BROADJAN. 23, 2009 The Swiss authorities on Friday released from jail the last of three family members suspected of smuggling atomic technology to Libya and Iran as part of the nuclear black market of Abdul Qadeer Khan, officials disclosed. They said the suspect, Marco Tinner, was freed in Bern after posting bail. His release, ending more than three years of investigative detention, was delayed nearly a month because of worries that he still had access to nuclear-weapons secrets. His brother Urs was released Dec. 22, and their father, Friedrich, was released in 2006. All three men are suspected of criminal export violations, and they still face possible charges as the Swiss inquiry advances. “The release of the Tinners has no influence on the pretrial investigation,” Andreas Müller, the examining magistrate in the case who is assessing if a trial is warranted, said in an interview. The inquiry has been stymied by the Swiss government’s decision last year to destroy a trove of computer files that documented the family’s business dealings. While officials said the action was meant to keep atomic plans out of terrorist hands, American officials said they had urged the destruction partly to hide evidence of a secret relationship between the Tinners and the C.I.A. This week a Swiss parliamentary panel said the files’ continued existence would have posed no danger to Switzerland. A version of this article appears in print on , on page A7 of the New York edition with the headline: Swiss Release Suspect in Nuclear Case. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Science   Coffee Linked to Lower Dementia Risk. Advertisement Advertisement By NICHOLAS BAKALARJAN. 23, 2009 Drinking coffee may do more than just keep you awake. A new study suggests an intriguing potential link to mental health later in life, as well. A team of Swedish and Danish researchers tracked coffee consumption in a group of 1,409 middle-age men and women for an average of 21 years. During that time, 61 participants developed dementia, 48 with Alzheimer’s disease. After controlling for numerous socioeconomic and health factors, including high cholesterol and high blood pressure, the scientists found that the subjects who had reported drinking three to five cups of coffee daily were 65 percent less likely to have developed dementia, compared with those who drank two cups or less. People who drank more than five cups a day also were at reduced risk of dementia, the researchers said, but there were not enough people in this group to draw statistically significant conclusions. Dr. Miia Kivipelto, an associate professor of neurology at the Karolinska Institute in Stockholm and lead author of the study, does not as yet advocate drinking coffee as a preventive health measure. “This is an observational study,” she said. “We have no evidence that for people who are not drinking coffee, taking up drinking will have a protective effect.” Dr. Kivipelto and her colleagues suggest several possibilities for why coffee might reduce the risk of dementia later in life. First, earlier studies have linked coffee consumption with a decreased risk of type 2 diabetes, which in turn has been associated with a greater risk of dementia. In animal studies, caffeine has been shown to reduce the formation of amyloid plaques in the brain, one of the hallmarks of Alzheimer’s disease. Finally, coffee may have an antioxidant effect in the bloodstream, reducing vascular risk factors for dementia. Dr. Kivipelto noted that previous studies have shown that coffee drinking may also be linked to a reduced risk of Parkinson’s disease. Advertisement The new study, published this month in The Journal of Alzheimer’s Disease, is unusual in that more than 70 percent of the original group of 2,000 people randomly selected for tracking were available for re-examination 21 years later. The dietary information had been collected at the beginning of the study, which reduced the possibility of errors introduced by people inaccurately recalling their consumption. Still, the authors acknowledge that any self-reported data is subject to inaccuracies. Go to Home Page »
Sports   Bill Werber, Infielder Who Played With Ruth, Is Dead at 100. Advertisement Advertisement By RICHARD GOLDSTEINJAN. 24, 2009 Bill Werber, a link to the Yankees of Babe Ruth and Lou Gehrig, the leadoff hitter in the first major league baseball game to be televised and the oldest living former big leaguer, died Thursday in Charlotte, N.C. He was 100. His death was announced by his daughter Patricia Bryant, The Charlotte Observer reported. When he marked his 100th birthday on June 20, Werber was sought out for tales from the baseball world of the 1920s and ’30s, and he was happy to oblige. He told of spending a few weeks traveling with the Yankees’ storied Murderers’ Row team of 1927, when he was attending Duke but had agreed to join the Yankees after graduating. The Yankees regulars never let him take any swings during batting practice, but three years later he made his debut at Yankee Stadium, and he treasured the moment. In his book “Memories of a Ballplayer,” written with C. Paul Rogers III and published when he was 93, Werber recalled the afternoon of June 25, 1930, when he walked in the second game of a doubleheader against the St. Louis Browns and then saw Ruth hit a home run. “I decided to show off my speed,” Werber wrote, “and probably scored before Ruth, with his peculiar little jog, reached first base. I sat down in the dugout and Ruth soon joined me. He said, ‘Son, you don’t have to run when the Babe hits one.’ ” Werber played briefly for the Yankees in 1930 and ’33, then joined the Red Sox. His best season was 1934, when he hit .321 with 200 hits and a league-leading 40 stolen bases for Boston. But he fractured a big toe kicking a water bucket in frustration over a play early in ’34, and the pain handicapped him for the rest of his career. Advertisement He played for the Philadelphia Athletics in 1937 and ’38, then joined the Cincinnati Reds. On Aug. 26, 1939, when the NBC station W2XBS presented the first telecast of a major league game, with Red Barber at the microphone, Werber was the leadoff hitter against the Brooklyn Dodgers at Ebbets Field. Werber played for the Reds’ pennant winners of 1939 and the World Series champions of 1940, hitting .370 in their Series triumph over the Detroit Tigers. He retired after playing for the New York Giants in 1942 and had a career batting average of .271 for 11 seasons, mostly at third base. He led the American League or tied for the lead in stolen bases three times. A native of Washington’s Maryland suburbs, Werber became Duke’s first all-American basketball player in 1930, a 5-foot-10-inch guard, and he also played shortstop at Duke. After retiring from baseball, he operated an insurance company founded by his father. In addition to his daughter Patricia, his survivors include his son, William Jr., and another daughter, Susie Hill. Reflecting on scraps he got into on the ball field, Werber told The Associated Press in 2008 that “I was vociferous and cocky and if they wanted to fight that was all right for me.” But, he said, “I’ve mellowed somewhat.” He was feisty enough in telling Commissioner Bud Selig what he thought of some modern-day ballplayers. As he related it to The Palm Beach Post last June: “I got cured of watching television the year the Boston Red Sox won it and Johnny Damon was on television with a beard and Ramírez with dreadlocks. I wrote the commissioner of baseball a letter — ‘Get those guys shaved. Have them be a role model for young boys.’ “The commissioner wrote me a very nice letter, but he didn’t say anything. He toe dances around every subject.” A version of this article appears in print on , on page A14 of the New York edition with the headline: Bill Werber, 100, Infielder Who Played With Ruth. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Washington   Washington Confident It Can Forge Recovery Plan. Advertisement Advertisement By PETER BAKERJAN. 23, 2009 WASHINGTON — President Obama and Congressional leaders from both parties pushed forward Friday with plans to pass a bipartisan economic recovery plan by mid-February, predicting that they would be able to settle their differences over the size and nature of the package. Mr. Obama hosted House and Senate leaders from both parties at the White House to hash out elements of a roughly $825 billion program. Republicans used the opportunity to press for more expansive tax cuts and questioned some spending in the latest plan. But both sides emerged expressing confidence that they would find consensus. “It appears that we are on target to make our President’s Day weekend,” said Mr. Obama, referring to the goal of passing the legislation by the next Congressional recess. He said that while “there are still some differences around the table,” everyone agreed “that we are experiencing an unprecedented, perhaps, economic crisis that has to be dealt with and dealt with rapidly.” Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the Speaker of the House, told reporters outside the White House that “we’re on schedule for our timetable” and Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, agreed. “I do think we’ll be able to meet the president’s deadline,” he said. The meeting, the first involving the bipartisan leadership since Mr. Obama took office Tuesday, was intended to signal quick action at a time of continuing turmoil as well as a commitment by the new president to work across party lines. For the moment, both sides appear eager to appear, at least, on the same page, recognizing the deep public anxiety about spiraling job losses, unraveling banks and sinking stock and home values. Advertisement But the harmony masked significant disagreement about the package. House Republicans presented their plan to Mr. Obama, proposing to scrap his $500 a worker tax credit in favor of cutting the lowest income tax rates, which they said would put more money in the pockets of most taxpayers. They also proposed tax breaks for small businesses, homebuyers and the unemployed. “At the end of the day, government can’t solve this problem,” said Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the House Republican leader. “The American people have to solve it. And the way they can solve it is if we allow them to keep more of the money that they earn.” Mr. Boehner also complained that some spending in the current plans would be wasteful and not related to jump starting the economy. “How you can spend hundreds of millions of dollars on contraceptive?” he asked. “How does that stimulate the economy?” Mr. McConnell said the president was “open to our suggestions” and Ms. Pelosi said some tax breaks in the House Democratic plan were put in at the suggestion of Republicans, citing specifically a job-creation tax credit for businesses. But that comment quickly triggered a sharp response from Mr. Boehner’s office. “That is simply not true,” said his spokeswoman, Antonia Ferrier, saying that the job-creation tax credit was actually suggested by Mr. Obama, not Republicans, and has now been removed from the package. The concern over spending centers not only on how much but how fast it can be pumped into the economy. A Congressional Budget Office analysis questioned whether the spending would course through the system quickly enough to produce the jobs that the new administration forecasts. Peter Orszag, the new director of the Office of Management and Budget, sent a letter to Congress addressing that concern, saying his staff’s analysis of the overall package, including tax cuts, indicates that 75 percent would be spent or distributed over the next 18 months. The president also used the session to reassure Congressional leaders and Americans that money would be used wisely, promising to impose tight controls. He criticized companies that have used federal money they received under the financial bailout for low priority or wasteful purposes and promised not to let that happen. He cited “reports that we’ve seen over the last couple of days about companies that have received taxpayer assistance, then going out and renovating bathrooms or offices, or in other ways not managing those dollars appropriately.” More accountability, he said, has “to be part and parcel of a reform package if we’re going to be responsible in dealing with this economic crisis.” Go to Home Page »
Business   Brazil Expands Investment in Offshore Drilling Projects. Advertisement Advertisement By ANDREW DOWNIEJAN. 24, 2009 SÃO PAULO, Brazil — Brazil’s state-controlled oil company, Petrobras, announced a crisis-busting investment plan Friday to spend more than $174 billion over the next five years, much of it for prodigious deep-water oil and gas exploration. The investment covers the 2009-2013 period and represents a rise of 55 percent over the $112.4 billion the company had vowed to spend on development between 2008 and 2012. This investment is “very robust and very important for the continuity of Petrobras’s growth,” José Sergio Gabrielli, the company’s chief executive, told reporters Friday at a news conference in Rio de Janeiro. Petrobras, whose full name is Petróleo Brasileiro, had promised to unveil its spending plans in September but delayed the announcement several times because of the world’s financial turmoil. In 2007 and 2008, Petrobras and partners including Repsol YPF of Spain and the BG Group of Britain discovered vast deposits of oil under more than 4,000 meters of water, rock and salt. Advertisement Although the finds are at previously untapped depths and will be costly to extract, they hold an estimated 8 billion to 12 billion barrels of oil, according to Petrobras figures. Company officials and oil experts say that other reserves of that size could be nearby. One of the finds alone, named the Tupi, holds the equivalent of 5 billion to 8 billion barrels of light crude oil and is the world’s biggest new field since a 12-billion-barrel find in Kazakhstan in 2000. President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva of Brazil has said repeatedly that developing these oil reserves is vital to the country’s future, and Petrobras has set aside $28 billion to that end. In all, new drilling could produce 219,000 barrels a day by 2013, 582,000 barrels a day by 2015 and 1.82 million barrels a day by 2020, he predicted. Natural gas extraction would rise from 7 million cubic meters a day in 2013 to 40 million a day in 2020, the company added. Petrobras produced a daily average of 2.18 million barrels of oil and gas last year. A version of this article appears in print on , on page A14 of the New York edition with the headline: Brazil Expands Investment In Oil Drilling. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Foreign   2 Ex-Detainees in Qaeda Video. Advertisement Advertisement By ROBERT F. WORTHJAN. 24, 2009 BEIRUT, Lebanon — Two former Guantánamo Bay detainees now appear to have joined Al Qaeda’s Yemeni branch, which released a video on Friday showing them both and identifying them by their names and Guantánamo detainee numbers. American counterterrorism officials have already confirmed that Said Ali al-Shihri, 35, who was released from the American prison camp at Guantánamo in November 2007, is now the deputy leader of Al Qaeda’s Yemeni branch. He is suspected of playing a role in a deadly attack on the American Embassy in the Yemeni capital, Sana, in September. In the video released Friday, Mr. Shihri sits alongside a man identified as Abu Hareth Muhammad al-Awfi, who appears with a script at the bottom of the screen giving his Guantánamo identification number, 333. That number corresponds to a man known in Pentagon documents as Mohamed Atiq Awayd al-Harbi, who was also released to Saudi Arabia in November 2007. The difference in names is partly due to the common Arab practice of referring to men by their kunya, an honorific, in this case Abu Hareth, derived from the name of his first son. The name Al Harbi is a tribal designation. Both men passed through a Saudi rehabilitation program for jihadists after their release from Guantánamo. That program has been seen as a model, and the Saudi government had previously said that none of its graduates had returned to terrorism. In the video released Friday, Mr. Awfi warns fellow prisoners about the Saudi program and threatens attacks against Saudi Arabia. He also speaks angrily about the Israeli attacks on Hamas in Gaza. Advertisement Mr. Shihri also speaks in the video, saying “by God, our imprisonment only increased our perseverance in the principles for which we went out, did jihad for, and were imprisoned for.” A version of this article appears in print on , on page A8 of the New York edition with the headline: 2 Ex-Detainees in Qaeda Video. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Movies   Sherlock: Old and New. Subscribe Now Subscribe campaign: inyt2015_bar1_digi_usd_4L9UF -- 277474, creative: inyt2015_bar1_digi_buttononly_usd_4L9UF -- 406560, page: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/movies/20090125_SHERLOCKHOLMES_SLIDESHOW.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/movies, position: Bar1 Log In Register Now Help More Slide Shows Movies Search Slide Shows All Multimedia » Close Sherlock: Old and New « Previous 1 of 8 Next » Sign In to E-Mail Is that Sherlock Holmes with blood on his bare chest? Robert Downey Jr. brings a different texture to the title character in a new version of "Sherlock Holmes," in theaters Dec. 25. Credit: Alex Bailey/Warner Brothers Pictures Related Article: Is That You, Sherlock? Home Movies © 2011 The New York Times Company Privacy Policy Your Ad Choices Contact Us Help Work for Us Site Map campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_personalized_isEDU_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/movies/20090125_SHERLOCKHOLMES_SLIDESHOW.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/movies, position: Inv1
Society   Linda Tsai and Richard Weinhart. Advertisement Advertisement JAN. 23, 2009 Linda Y. Tsai and Richard Weinhart were married Friday at Battery Gardens, a restaurant, in New York. Tulis McCall, a minister of the Universal Brotherhood Movement, an interfaith ministry, officiated. Ms. Tsai, 34, is keeping her name. She is a stock analyst at MKM Partners, a securities trading and research firm in Greenwich, Conn. She graduated from Barnard and received an M.B.A. from New York University. She is a daughter of Katherine Tsai and Billy I. Tsai of New Providence, N.J. Her mother retired as a jewelry designer and the owner of Importco Enterprises, a jewelry importer in Summit, N.J. Her father retired as the owner of the Golden Valley Company, a jewelry wholesale business, also in Summit. Mr. Weinhart, 37, worked in New York until September as a vice president and stock analyst at BMO Capital Markets, a division of the Bank of Montreal. He graduated from St. John Fisher College in Rochester. He is a son of Frances M. Weinhart and Robert G. Weinhart of Conesus, N.Y. His mother retired as a cashier at a Tops Markets store in Gates, N.Y. His father retired from Eastman Kodak in Rochester, where he was a purchasing agent. A version of this article appears in print on , on page ST10 of the New York edition with the headline: Linda Tsai, Richard Weinhart. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Sports   Mosley Upsets Margarito. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content Skip to navigation View mobile version The New York Times More Sports|Mosley Upsets Margarito Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Supported by More Sports | Sports Briefing | Boxing Mosley Upsets Margarito By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSJAN. 25, 2009 Continue reading the main story Share This Page Continue reading the main story Shane Mosley dominated from start to finish Saturday night, scoring a technical knockout of Antonio Margarito 43 seconds into the ninth round to win the World Boxing Association welterweight title in a stunning upset in Los Angeles. Margarito, 30, was coming off an impressive victory over the previously unbeaten Miguel Cotto six months ago. But Mosley, 37, used his superior quickness from the beginning, and Margarito was never able to display the power and strength he showed against Cotto. A version of this brief appears in print on , on page SP6 of the New York edition with the headline: Mosley Upsets Margarito. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Continue reading the main story What's Next Loading... Go to Home Page » Site Index The New York Times Site Index Navigation News World U.S. Politics N.Y. Business Tech Science Health Sports Education Obituaries Today's Paper Corrections Opinion Today's Opinion Op-Ed Columnists Editorials Contributing Writers Op-Ed Contributors Opinionator Letters Sunday Review Taking Note Room for Debate Public Editor Video: Opinion Arts Today's Arts Art & Design ArtsBeat Books Dance Movies Music N.Y.C. Events Guide Television Theater Video: Arts Living Automobiles Crossword Food Education Fashion & Style Health Jobs Magazine N.Y.C. Events Guide Real Estate T Magazine Travel Weddings & Celebrations Listings & More Classifieds Tools & Services Times Topics Public Editor N.Y.C. Events Guide Blogs Multimedia Photography Video NYT Store Times Journeys Subscribe Manage My Account Subscribe Subscribe Times Insider Home Delivery Digital Subscriptions NYT Opinion Crossword Email Newsletters Alerts Gift Subscriptions Corporate Subscriptions Education Rate Mobile Applications Replica Edition International New York Times Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Travel   Caribbean on the Cheap. Subscribe Now Subscribe campaign: inyt2015_bar1_digi_usd_4L9UF -- 277474, creative: inyt2015_bar1_digi_buttononly_usd_4L9UF -- 406560, page: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/travel/0125-caribbean.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/travel, position: Bar1 Log In Register Now Help More Slide Shows Travel Search Slide Shows All Multimedia » Close Caribbean on the Cheap « Previous 1 of 11 Next » Sign In to E-Mail Trinidad and Tobago Tobago is cheap by Caribbean standards. Beers are typically under $2 and seafood is plentiful. Left, a jetty at Pigeon Point, near the island's southern tip. Credit: Denny Lee/The New York Times Related Article: 2009 Affordable Caribbean Home Travel © 2011 The New York Times Company Privacy Policy Your Ad Choices Contact Us Help Work for Us Site Map campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_personalized_isEDU_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/travel/0125-caribbean.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/travel, position: Inv1
U.S.   State-by-State Welfare Assistance. Subscribe Now Subscribe campaign: inyt2015_bar1_digi_usd_4L9UF -- 277474, creative: inyt2015_bar1_digi_buttononly_usd_4L9UF -- 406560, page: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/us/20090126-welfare-table.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/us, position: Bar1 Log In Register Now Help Home Page Today's Paper Video Most Popular Times Topics Search All NYTimes.com U.S. World U.S. Politics Education Bay Area Chicago Texas N.Y. / Region Business Technology Science Health Sports Opinion Arts Style Travel Jobs Real Estate Autos Sign In to E-Mail Published: July 19, 2011 State-by-State Welfare Assistance Cash welfare assistance has been cut in 18 states, raising questions about the program’s ability to respond to rising unemployment during hard times. By contrast, the number of recipients of the food stamp program grew in all states. Related Article State Welfare recipients, 2007 Welfare recipients, 2008 Pct. change in welfare recipients Unemployment rate, 2007 Unemployment rate, 2008 Pct. pt. change in unemployment Food stamp recipients, 2007 Food stamp recipients, 2008 Pct. change in food stamp recipients Alabama 42,920 41,849 -2.5 3.5 5.5 2 556,247 613,737 10.3 Alaska 7,974 7,316 -8.3 6.2 7.2 1 56,112 58,058 3.5 Arizona 88,235 88,781 0.6 3.9 6.1 2.2 606,973 734,403 21 Arkansas 21,075 19,689 -6.6 5.5 5.4 -0.1 376,021 387,956 3.2 California 1,144,529 1,216,866 6.3 5.7 8.2 2.5 2,104,426 2,398,897 14 Colorado 24,720 24,453 -1.1 3.9 5.7 1.8 246,532 272,982 10.7 Connecticut 39,042 38,862 -0.5 4.8 6.5 1.7 203,016 219,532 8.1 District of Columbia 37,421 39,267 4.9 5.7 7.3 1.6 86,759 92,288 6.4 Delaware 9,244 10,049 8.7 3.5 5.3 1.8 70,914 81,462 14.9 Florida 74,994 87,632 16.9 4.3 7 2.7 1,345,162 1,694,649 26 Georgia 42,608 37,983 -10.9 4.5 6.9 2.4 971,241 1,139,309 17.3 Hawaii 10,617 10,890 2.6 2.8 4.6 1.8 92,486 105,100 13.6 Idaho 2,234 2,246 0.5 2.7 5.3 2.6 90,059 111,838 24.2 Illinois 68,001 62,525 -8.1 5.3 7.3 2 1,269,240 1,424,439 12.2 Indiana 117,097 113,572 -3 4.5 6.4 1.9 607,782 740,347 21.8 Iowa 42,174 38,500 -8.7 3.8 4.4 0.6 245,282 276,177 12.6 Kansas 34,391 31,215 -9.2 4 4.9 0.9 186,284 197,939 6.3 Kentucky 58,555 58,124 -0.7 5.4 6.8 1.4 620,114 663,591 7 Louisiana 21,841 19,545 -10.5 3.6 5.6 2 642,999 687,571 6.9 Maine 34,224 34,401 0.5 4.9 5.7 0.8 169,531 186,715 10.1 Maryland 52,084 57,601 10.6 3.6 4.9 1.3 342,095 402,892 17.8 Massachusetts 108,077 110,419 2.2 4.3 5.5 1.2 479,248 563,068 17.5 Michigan 226,520 196,775 -13.1 7.5 9.3 1.8 1,225,285 1,303,093 6.4 Minnesota 76,525 78,348 2.4 4.6 5.9 1.3 272,522 292,862 7.5 Mississippi 24,052 23,714 -1.4 6.3 7.2 0.9 442,007 472,537 6.9 Missouri 111,780 101,916 -8.8 5.4 6.5 1.1 854,513 949,404 11.1 Montana 7,836 8,091 3.3 3.2 4.8 1.6 78,911 81,735 3.6 Nebraska 23,790 23,067 -3 3.1 3.7 0.6 119,939 121,416 1.2 Nevada 21,062 21,796 3.5 5.1 7.7 2.6 132,935 162,743 22.4 New Hampshire 11,270 12,069 7.1 3.3 4.1 0.8 60,376 68,114 12.8 New Jersey 97,358 94,297 -3.1 4.2 6 1.8 420,166 456,010 8.5 New Mexico 34,346 38,219 11.3 3.3 4.3 1 231,074 258,130 11.7 New York 408,313 391,110 -4.2 4.6 5.7 1.1 1,825,759 2,025,853 11 North Carolina 47,898 49,653 3.7 4.7 7.1 2.4 896,913 1,012,481 12.9 North Dakota 6,700 7,295 8.9 3.2 3.4 0.2 47,306 49,293 4.2 Ohio 172,074 179,595 4.4 5.7 7.3 1.6 1,108,749 1,207,998 9 Oklahoma 20,686 19,170 -7.3 4.3 4.3 0 419,604 432,642 3.1 Oregon 44,803 53,353 19.1 5.4 7.2 1.8 443,316 499,012 12.6 Pennsylvania 212,788 199,273 -6.4 4.4 5.8 1.4 1,157,888 1,234,892 6.7 Rhode Island 24,093 19,908 -17.4 5.1 9.3 4.2 81,417 90,444 11.1 South Carolina 32,886 38,050 15.7 6 7.9 1.9 569,204 636,698 11.9 South Dakota 5,929 6,172 4.1 2.9 3.2 0.3 60,433 65,159 7.8 Tennessee 151,843 144,705 -4.7 5 7 2 891,779 977,109 9.6 Texas 136,797 115,690 -15.4 4.3 5.6 1.3 2,322,073 2,651,370 14.2 Utah 11,218 12,324 9.9 2.8 3.5 0.7 130,425 156,033 19.6 Vermont 12,017 12,922 7.5 3.9 5.2 1.3 53,154 60,062 13 Virginia 62,715 65,546 4.5 3.2 4.4 1.2 527,906 582,494 10.3 Washington 112,583 124,937 11 4.6 6.3 1.7 542,599 631,487 16.4 West Virginia 21,223 22,927 8 4.7 4.6 -0.1 273,852 285,242 4.2 Wisconsin 38,803 37,811 -2.6 4.8 5.1 0.3 394,494 469,853 19.1 Wyoming 478 613 28.2 2.9 3.3 0.4 23,591 24,993 5.9 The New York Times | Send Feedback Home World U.S. N.Y. / Region Business Technology Science Health Sports Opinion Arts Style Travel Jobs Real Estate Autos Site Map © 2011 The New York Times Company Privacy Your Ad Choices Terms of Service Terms of Sale Corrections RSS Help Contact Us Work for Us Advertise campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_personalized_isEDU_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/us/20090126-welfare-table.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/us, position: Inv1
Business   Talk to the Newsroom: Alternative Energy and Green Business Editor. Advertisement Advertisement JAN. 25, 2009 Tom Zeller Jr., an editor and writer who covers alternative energy and green business and edits the Green Inc. blog, is answering questions from readers Jan. 26-30, 2009. Questions may be e-mailed to askthetimes@nytimes.com. To move directly to the most recent answer, click here. After a year as an editor at large for National Geographic magazine, Tom returned to The New York Times in July 2008. He spent much of the last decade as a reporter and editor covering various subjects for The Times ­— from technology and cyberfraud to culture and politics. He was also the founder of The Lede, the paper's news blog, in 2006. Tom has won several awards for visual journalism and multimedia reporting from the Society of News Design and from the University of Navarra, Spain (Malofiej Awards), including prizes for a collection of essays and graphics lending historical context to the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan; an interactive reconstruction of the shooting of Amadou Diallo; and a multimedia documentary of a Louisiana plantation — part of The Times's Pulitzer prize-winning "How Race Is Lived in America" series. Originally from Ohio, Tom received a B.A. in literature from Cleveland State University and a master's degree in journalism from Columbia University. Other Times staff members have answered questions in this column, including Executive Editor Bill Keller, Managing Editor Jill Abramson, Managing Editor John Geddes, Assistant Managing Editor Glenn Kramon, Associate Managing Editor Charles Strum, Obituaries Editor Bill McDonald, Metropolitan Editor Joe Sexton, Living Editor Trish Hall, Investigations Editor Matthew Purdy, National Editor Suzanne Daley, Sports Editor Tom Jolly and Culture Editor Sam Sifton. Their responses and those of other Times staff members are available on the Talk to the Newsroom page. Advertisement These discussions will continue in coming weeks with other Times editors and reporters. Using Food Crops for Fuel Q. What is the prevailing view among green media journalists regarding Brazil's ethanol program and its impact on carbon emissions and the food vs. fuel issue? Q. So since raising corn for biofuel is playing havoc with the world's food supply and apparently costing way too much, could you please bring me up-to-date about what other, more appropriate crops are under way in the U.S.A.? Are there entrenched interests impeding progress in this area? Q. Can you make a coherent, rational case for converting corn into ethanol? To me, to be feeding our food to cars is insane. Strip away any subsidies — and the cost in fertilizer, and the resulting higher prices for everything corn-based or derived — from pork, chicken and so much else — and it looks like we are out of our minds. The only ones who seem to make out like bandits by doing so are ADM, etc. This situation calls to mind what usually happens with "complex systems" when you meddle with them. (Jay W. Forrester — System Dynamics) — the results are anything but what is expected — anything but "fuel independence," etc. On the other hand, if you don't want to make the case for it — make the case against it. A. The corn ethanol question — and the larger debate surrounding biofuels in general — is an important one, but before I address that, I'd like to highlight an underlying assumption tucked into these and similar questions that are frequently aimed at those of us covering the alternative energy and environmental beats. Can I make a "coherent, rational argument for or against corn ethanol?" Can I characterize the "prevailing view" among "green" journalists on Brazil's ethanol program and the food vs. fuel debate? The answer, obviously, is no and no. As a journalist, it's not my place to cultivate personal views on these matters — though it's true that a lot of the media coverage of energy, the environment and climate change would lead reasonable readers to assume otherwise. Advertisement That said, the ethanol question provides an excellent object lesson in the vagaries of any potential alternative to fossil fuels — and the pitfalls of believing that any alternative is a silver bullet. Corn ethanol was celebrated just a few years ago as a simple solution to diminishing supplies of fossil fuels and, in the United States, a homegrown means of reducing dependence on foreign energy supplies. The certainty of that solution was quickly muddied, however, when food prices began to rise, and closer analyses began to question whether the energy invested or the carbon released in production of corn ethanol eclipsed whatever benefits are derived from its cleaner combustion. In Brazil, sugar cane is the main feedstock, and much ink has been devoted to concerns that demand for ethanol there is accelerating the destruction of forests, as agriculture expands apace. No study of corn ethanol production — or of biofuels generally — has produced conclusive evidence that the assertions on either side of the debate are entirely correct. Rather, the questions themselves highlight the complexity of the climate change/energy challenge, and the need, in my mind, for careful consideration of all the implications attending any one approach. Of course, we are not likely to discover an energy source for which there is no attending environmental cost. The key is to consider the entire life cycle of each new idea, and decide as a nation — or a planet — what sorts of costs we're willing to bear. One footnote: Cellulosic ethanol — that is, ethanol derived from organic scrap material like corn stalks, rice straw and other non-edible parts of plants, or from other materials like wood chips and switchgrass — has been touted as a potential alternative to crop-based ethanol. But even here, some scientists advise caution, as I wrote for Green Inc. last fall. Advertisement "A cellulosic biofuels industry could have many positive social and environmental attributes," the authors of the policy note appearing in Science magazine last October wrote (PDF), "but it could also suffer from many of the sustainability issues that hobble grain-based biofuels, if not implemented the right way." Obama, Cars and the Environment Q. Now that our "green president" has begun his drive to clean up auto emissions, we will have another restraint on the ability of U.S. manufacturers to compete in a global industry. How can this possibly help? A. Another great question — and one that's on the minds of many American consumers in the wake of President Barack Obama's request today that the Environmental Protection Agency reconsider California's quest to enforce tougher emissions standards. Several states are already lined up to follow California's lead, and it will almost certainly complicate things for automakers — though some would argue that's not necessarily a bad thing. Advertisement One of our chief contributors to Green Inc., Kate Galbraith, has been chatting with representatives of the auto industry, so I tossed this question to her. Here's her response: This issue is certainly of concern for the automotive industry. Charles Territo, a spokesman for the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, says that while his organization is willing to work with the Obama administration to lower greenhouse gas emissions, car makers are unhappy about the prospect of two different emissions standards. (That would be the result if the Environmental Protection Agency grants California its long-sought request for tighter emissions standards — something that President Obama, per his announcement today, seems keen to move forward on.) But others argue that tighter emissions standards will drive the development of new technologies, and thus new industries and new jobs. Car battery makers, for example, are hoping that their industry (now largely centered in Asia) can flourish in the United States, if the U.S. electrifies its auto fleet. You didn't ask about the potentially broader scope of carbon-dioxide regulations, but the same arguments apply there. While tighter controls on emissions would be likely to hurt some industries (coal-dependent electric utilities, for example), putting a price on carbon would be a boon to developers of other types of electricity generation, such as wind or solar power. About Nuclear Power Plants Q. How many applications for nuclear plants are there in the United States, where are the plants to be located, and which ones do you think might come on line first? Thanks for your good work. Q. In Citrus County, Florida, where I live, Progress Energy operates a nuclear power plant. To my knowledge, Progress Energy has maintained the plant safely, been a good corporate citizen, and a major source of higher paid jobs. Progress Energy now proposes to build a new nuclear power plant in neighboring Levy County. The conservative local newspaper and local business interests have lined up in support of the nuclear power plant in the interest of job creation. Environmentals oppose the plant because it will degrade the environment in the short run and in the long run leave the problem of nuclear waste. They also oppose the plant because it doubles the risk to the community of a terrorist attack. Finally, they oppose the plant because it uses resources on nuclear power that could otherwise be invested in greener forms of energy, particularly solar power. Any thoughts on what questions we should be asking in order to decide whether the new nuclear power plant is good or bad for our community and for the country? A. For the first question, I consulted my friend and colleague — and The Times's resident nuclear power expert — Matt Wald. Matt reports that, as of today, there are 17 applications to build 26 nuclear power plants. The Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Matt adds, anticipates 6 more applications to build an additional 9 plants — though he points out that proposals for power plants, in general, have "a high mortality rate." That is to say, most of them never get built. "A term that originated in the computer industry for products that are announced but never marketed — "vaporware" — seems applicable," Matt said. "Whether any get built depends heavily on the price of natural gas and the price anticipated for carbon dioxide, and the success of efforts to improve energy efficiency. Proposals in Florida, Texas and the northeast probably have the best chance." As for the second question, well, this is a wildly divisive topic, and you capture the debate extremely well. Those who favor nuclear power argue — often rather persuasively — that it is a comparatively clean energy source (at least on the generation end of things); that it is capable of producing very large amounts of energy from a relatively small amount of fuel; that once a plant is built, operating costs are competitive with fossil fuels; and, perhaps most pointedly in these days of handwringing over galloping greenhouse gases, that the technology and its attending climate benefits are available now. Advertisement Opponents of nuclear power counter — equally persuasively — that nuclear waste is highly toxic and remains so for thousands of years; that the capital costs for building a plant are enormous; that uranium procurement has a history of being somewhat of a messy affair (though so, too, is coal mining); that nuclear plants typically require lots of water — another precious resource; and the costs of a mishap, both environmentally and in terms of human health, are comparatively high. There's also the terrorism question — although just how likely it is that terrorists would take aim at Levy County, Fla., would probably be a matter of debate. Of course, the questions that are most likely to animate your local debate will be just that: local. Where is the plant being located and what will the environmental impact of construction be? How will it make use of local water resources? What sorts of jobs are likely to be created, and are they worth the investment and the necessary tradeoffs? Are any of the viable alternatives capable of meeting regional energy needs any time soon? What sort of stock do you put, as a community, in the ability of Progress Energy to operate the plant and handle waste safely? Stepping back, I suppose there's also a certain investment of faith in mankind's ability to develop heretofore undiscovered ways of recycling nuclear waste, generating less of it, or finding new and better ways of storing it until it's no longer a threat. For some that's an easy investment. For others, not so much. You also ask if nuclear power plants are good for the country. I'd venture that the answer to that question will arise — as it has for some time now — from the collective response to individual projects in communities like yours. Harnessing the Power of the Sea Q. What is underway to capture the natural energy of our coastal seas? A. I'd like to answer this question by citing a couple of articles from The New York Times: Tidal power is the last force in nature that man tries to make his slave in perpetuity — like fire, steam, the waterpower of streams, and electricity from all sources but the tides. ... Under the urgent need of checking the inroads on the world's resources of coal and oil, after years of data gathering by engineers and scientists, actual projects are being pushed in three countries for the utilization of the Atlantic tides to produce hydroelectric power. As you might guess from the diction, the article is an old one — published Sept. 11, 1921. (A PDF of the article is available from The Times's archives.) Now let's fast forward 87 years and consult The Times again: For years, technological visionaries have painted a seductive vision of using ocean tides and waves to produce power. They foresee large installations off the coast and in tidal estuaries that could provide as much as 10 percent of the nation's electricity. But the technical difficulties of making such systems work are proving formidable. Last year, a wave-power machine sank off the Oregon coast. Blades have broken off experimental tidal turbines in New York's turbulent East River. Problems with offshore moorings have slowed the deployment of snakelike generating machines in the ocean off Portugal. That tidbit comes from an article written last fall by my colleague, Kate Galbraith — on Sept. 22, 2008. The multidecade narrative is, I think, one of immense ambitions that have gone unrealized. My sense of where things currently stand with ocean wave and tidal power? I'd say that while it remains an alluring potential power source, the technological hurdles — which are expensive hurdles — are still being worked out, and we are quite some distance away from anything that will produce power at scale. Advertisement As Kate said in her story, "Roughly 100 small companies around the world are working on converting the sea's power to electricity. Many operate in Europe, where governments have pumped money into the industry. Companies and governments alike are betting that over time, costs will come down. Right now, however, little electricity is being generated from the ocean except at scattered test sites around the world." What About Natural Gas for Cars? Q. Why hasn't there been more push from the federal government to natural gas for vehicles? Perhaps it's not a long-term answer but surely it's better than petroleum in the short term. It would save on the balance of payments to foreign countries, reduce greenhouse gases, and an infrastructure would be easy to achieve. We can still go to other energy sources when they become available. A. It takes a village to answer some of these questions. This time, I tapped the combined brain trust of Kate Galbraith and Matt Wald, who noted that although natural gas vehicles have been around for some time, Mr. Belden is right to note that they've never really taken off in large numbers. At the moment, the only natural-gas car manufactured and sold by a major automaker in the United States is a version of the Honda Civic. For a hefty fee, other vehicles can be converted to run on natural gas. But there are several barriers to entry for natural gas cars. From Matt and Kate: A big one is range. Natural gas can be compressed, but it still takes up more room than petroleum. The larger fuel tanks can eat into trunk space, and the vehicles cannot travel as far without refueling. Then there is a lack of infrastructure. Some bus fleets work well on natural gas, but there are currently very few stations in the country that stock the fuel. Utah, where certain regulatory idiosyncrasies make natural gas cheaper than in the rest of the United States, is one exception (see Cliff Krauss's reporting last year on natural gas vehicles in that state). The Texas oilman T. Boone Pickens has been lobbying hard for natural gas vehicles as part of his "Pickens Plan," and Rahm Emanuel, the new White House chief of staff, has also pushed for natural gas vehicles. But automakers these days seem to be looking at a different path: one that would lead to more hybrid and plug-in electric cars. Will Electric Cars Really Save Energy? Q. Is anybody seriously following through with the next question in electric car technology? Namely, where is the power going to come from to charge up the cars, besides the obvious answer of the garage outlet. In other words, will we end up putting more exhaust in the atmosphere from coal-fired power plants because of electric cars than we would with oil products? A. I asked Justin Gillis, The Times's energy editor in Business Day, for advice on this one. Justin noted that while electric cars will almost certainly mean increased combustion of coal at power plants, it's likely that an electrified fleet would still represent on overall gain for the climate — and a pretty big one. Here's Justin's explanation: The simple reason is that one big engine, like those that turn a generator at a power plant, is a lot more efficient than thousands of small engines, like the gasoline engine in your car. So for a given amount of energy from fossil fuels, the big engine can get more work done, wasting less of the energy as heat. Calculations vary and the final number will depend somewhat on how we deploy electric cars, but a common estimate is that they will cut greenhouse gas emissions by 40 percent compared to traveling the same distance in conventional cars. Even if you believe the public is ready for electric cars, though, a lot of important decisions still need to be made about how we deploy them. In particular, most experts favor a system that would encourage people to charge their cars at night, when electricity use is lowest. That would lead to more efficient use of existing power plants, and we could probably put a lot of electric cars on the road without needing to build new plants. To make this work, we may need variable pricing of electricity, so that it is cheapest when demand is low. For further reading on the topic, it might be worth taking a look at a study completed in 2007, and jointly authored by the Natural Resources Defense Council and the Electric Power Research Institute. Allowing for the myriad variables to which Justin alludes above, the study, which can be found here, comes to a similar conclusion: In almost any conceivable scenario, mass conversion to electric vehicles is likely to provide "significant" reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. Advertisement The Cost of Organic Food Q. What are your thoughts on whether in the near future we will be paying a more equalized price for organic foods and products — or even less ... than the alternatives that add things like hormones, antibiotics, pesticides, other chemicals and the cost that goes into genetic engineering etc.? A. The best mind I can think of for this question is that belonging to our reporter covering the food industry, Andrew Martin. Take it away, Andy: Organic foods have already come down significantly in price — primarily because of the growth of store-brand organic products like Safeway's O line. In a few instances, like pasta, the price of organic isn't significantly different. Having said that, I think it's unlikely that organic food over all will be the same or less than conventional food any time soon. The reasons are simple: farm chemicals give farmers more consistent and higher yields. Even under the most ideal circumstances, it would be difficult to grow as much corn or apples organically as with fertilizer and pesticides. As for livestock, conventional farming produces animals in confined spaces and with antibiotics and hormones to maximize yields; not only isn't that possible in organic farming, it's not allowed. Does Solar Energy Have Drawbacks? Q. You recently addressed a number of questions regarding "Ethanol for Fuel," and in your answers you suggested that one must carefully examine both sides of any alternative fuel. I would like to broaden the scope of the debate to include solar energy. I see many benefits but no real potential problems associated with this type of energy production. Could you comment on this? A. I suppose that many of the upsides and downsides associated with any alternative energy source depend on where you sit. Sure, solar power has few of the emissions issues associated with fossil fuels, but that doesn't mean there aren't problems to be overcome. Perhaps the most obvious of these is that the sun only shines during the day — when it's not too cloudy — and storing the energy harvested is difficult. Technology companies are busy trying to overcome these issues, but as with wind power, the intermittency of solar energy and its storage are significant impediments, at least for now. Getting down to the community level, there are also those pernicious Nimby issues (that is, Not In My Back Yard) that dog nearly every energy technology. In the case of solar, you might also call them Nimbbl issues — as in, Not In My Big, Beautiful Landscape. Bringing solar power to scale will almost certainly require fairly huge installations. And while the United States has plenty of open spaces that would provide ideal conditions for large-scale solar, not everyone wants to see those natural landscapes altered for energy production. Another issue is that many of the best places to harvest solar power on a large scale are, as with wind power, far from where the energy is most needed. That requires new modes of transmission, which inevitably stirs up land and landscape disputes, because transmission lines are going to have to go somewhere. Advertisement Finally, while solar power generation is undeniably clean, the manufacture and disposal of solar panels — which include some toxic components — is beginning to trouble some advocates. Just this month, the Silicon Valley Toxics Coalition, published a report on this problem. (A PDF of the report is available here.) Compared with other energy sources, many people may find these wrinkles to be relatively minor — and we should never underestimate the ingenuity of the human animal to overcome these and other problems. The point, though, is that every energy solution will require some sort of social and environmental tradeoff. And every fledgling alternative is going to need vast amounts of investment and government nurturing to get off the ground in any way that might make a difference any time soon. So is solar the best place to pour resources? Wind? Geothermal? Ocean power? And what about retrofitting existing fossil fuel plants with new technologies so they produce fewer greenhouse emissions? Is that worth it? Do we spread the money around or focus it in one place? These are all tough decisions. The trick will be identifying — and agreeing on — which methods provide the most benefit with the least cost to both people and the planet. How Tech Savvy Must a Green Reporter Be? Q. Some of your answers have indicated that development of alternative energy will depend on a combination of technology and societal choices. To what extent do journalists in this area have (or need) an understanding of the technologies versus quoting various proponents or opponents? And to what extent should stories differentiate between engineering, economic and public acceptance challenges? A. At its root, you're asking a question that applies to journalists working on any beat. That is to say, how much expertise ought a journalist have in the subject area he or she is covering? My initial inclination is to say the more the better. But as you might guess, that's not always practical, and when you get down to the particulars, it's not always desirable. Having a trained doctor cover the health beat, for example, would certainly have its advantages, but not every M.D. has the additional skill sets required of a working journalist. Advertisement These certainly include an ability to quickly gather and distill complex information from a variety of sources into a form that's clear and accessible to a lay reader — or viewer, or listener, in the case of television and radio; an ability to recognize the national or global implications of small changes and trends within a discipline; and because no one knows everything, a native desire to dig, question, and seek out a variety of voices, vignettes and expertise as a way of capturing, in a relatively small amount of space, the fullest and most honest representation of developments on a beat. That may sound like a highfalutin' job description for a journalist, but it's what good ones aspire to. We certainly have journalists at The New York Times with advanced training in medicine, economics, physics, biology and other disciplines — and we're lucky to have them. But the paper is also full of talented, omnivorous generalists who have covered a number of beats in their careers — from politics to science to the war in Iraq. There are far too many of these to even begin naming. The energy and environment beats are no different. We have some reporters deployed on these topics who have years of experience and a deep understanding of the complexities underlying the science, the engineering, and the politics of climate change, the fossil fuel industry and renewable energy. We have others who are new to the subject, but whose inherent curiosity and knack for reporting are uncovering facets of the beat that more experienced journalists might overlook. The combination, I think, works well. As for how much focus any one story ought to have on the engineering, economic and social aspects of the beat, well, they all come into play. Some stories may touch on all three. Others will drill down on one area. But they're all vital to the ongoing coverage of the energy and environmental challenges ahead of us. A Comment on the Comment of the Moment Q. Love Green Inc. Hate the Comment of the Moment. It is out of step with the thoughtful content I expect from you. I'm forced to listen to the deniers on conservative talk radio at work, and am very familiar with short and snappy total fabrications being sold as truth. Lately all of the comments seem to be cherry-picked slams at the environmental movement and those of us who believe that together we can move this country forward. Is Rush responsible for picking which comments appear and are read by every visitor to Green Inc.? A. Thanks for the feedback, Mitch, and for reading us so closely. As anyone running one of The Times's blogs can tell you, critical interpretation of the "Comment of the Moment" — or the COM, as we like to call it — is among our readers' favorite pastimes. But speaking for Green Inc., the exegesis will always prove unrevealing, and I can promise you that Rush Limbaugh has exercised no influence over our selections. Indeed, we've received complaints from others that we too often reflect the "green" agenda in the COM, and fail to give voice to, for instance, those among our audience who insist that global warming is an elaborate hoax — like Pat, or Mike, or Betty. Advertisement The truth is, when we remember to swap out the COM at all (we should do it more often than we do), we typically hunt for short, succinct, clever and sometimes humorous observations that won't take up too much space in the righthand column. There's no ideological litmus test involved. If you're noticing the selections skewing one way or another at any point, I'd encourage you to just keep reading. The balance will show itself in the long view. Isn't Population the Problem? Q. I applaud the interest in and movement toward alternative energy but I worry that we are ignoring a big elephant in the room. Shouldn't we direct some attention towards population? Is someone trying to figure out how how much larger the human population can grow before it is no longer sustainable? Are governments talking about this? A. This is a fascinating question -- and one with broad social and political implications. It's also one over which economists, anthropologists and other social scientists have puzzled at least since the time of Thomas Malthus, who famously held that human population growth had the potential to hugely outstrip food production. Not everyone, of course, has embraced the Malthusian world view, which included the idea that family size among the poorer classes ought to be limited, though in modern China, social engineering of a less selective kind -- that is, family size limits for all citizens -- has been at work for some time. In any case, it's a complicated issue, so I reached out to James Kanter, a correspondent in Brussels for The International Herald Tribune and one of our chief contributors at Green Inc. Here's what James had to say: Go to Home Page »
Foreign   Healing Schism, Pope Risks Another. Advertisement Advertisement By RACHEL DONADIOJAN. 25, 2009 ROME — A day after Pope Benedict XVI said he would revoke the excommunications of four schismatic bishops, including one who has denied the Holocaust, concern about the pope’s decision extended into the Vatican itself. Cardinal Walter Kasper, the director of the Pontifical Council for Promoting Christian Unity and the liaison for Vatican-Jewish relations, said Sunday that he had not been consulted. “It was a decision of the pope,” the cardinal said in a telephone interview. That Benedict apparently did not widely discuss a matter that has provoked anger among Jewish groups and liberal Catholics was not out of character, however. It was just the latest example of how the pope is increasingly focused on internal doctrinal issues and seemingly unaware of how they might resonate in the larger world. As such, it perfectly captured the theological aspirations — and political shortcomings — of his four-year-old papacy. In 2007, Benedict approved broader use of the Latin Mass, a reform sought by the same traditionalists he has now reinstated, but one seen by many in the church as divisive. The year before, the pope angered Muslims when he cited a medieval scholar who said that Islam brought things “evil and inhuman,” and he was seemingly ill prepared for the repercussions. He later apologized. Advertisement Again this weekend, a doctrinal question exploded into a global polemic. Benedict’s decision to extend an olive branch to the four men was apparently born from a deep personal and theological desire to heal the only schism in the Roman Catholic Church in a century. On Saturday, he said he would welcome back into the fold the four members of a sect founded in opposition to the reforms of the Second Vatican Council in the 1960s. The bishops are members of the St. Pius X Society, which was founded in 1970 by a French archbishop, Marcel Lefebvre, in opposition to Vatican II reforms. They were excommunicated by Pope John Paul II in 1988 after Archbishop Lefebvre consecrated them in unsanctioned ceremonies. The most contentious of the four is the British-born Bishop Richard Williamson, who in a recent television interview said he thought the “historical evidence” was against six million Jews dying in Nazi gas chambers. Some saw the pope’s decision as part of a trend, or at least an indication of his priorities. “There is obviously a theological strategy, but the repercussions on the public opinion field beyond the church are obviously only secondary in priority,” said Mordechay Lewy, the Israeli ambassador to the Vatican. The move baffled Alberto Melloni, a professor of church history and the director of the liberal Catholic John XXIII Foundation for Religious Science in Bologna, which produced a history of Vatican II. “What is very inexplicable to me is how it’s possible to not calculate the consequences. This is abnormal,” he said. The Society of St. Pius X does not appear to have issued any public statements on Bishop Williamson’s views on the Holocaust. But the society has never been welcoming toward other faiths. Jewish leaders said the pope’s decision was a setback. “It’s a very serious situation,” said Riccardo di Segni, the chief rabbi of Rome. He said the tenets of Lefebvrism were as worrisome as Bishop Williamson’s personal views. Rabbi di Segni said he did not know what the next chapter would bring. “I don’t know what kind of resolution there can be at this point,” he said. Advertisement In a public statement, the Vatican said Saturday that the revocation was a step toward full reconciliation with the Lefebvrists and that further talks would seek to resolve the “open questions.” Other liberal critics said the pope’s decision to welcome the Lefebvrists showed that he was more willing to embrace schismatic conservatives than wayward leftists. In his days as Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger, the prefect of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, Benedict censured many left-leaning prelates, including ones adhering to the Marxist-inflected Liberation Theology movement popular in Latin America. “I would be happy if the pope would be for reconciliation, especially also for people on the progressive side,” said Hans Küng, a professor of theology at the University of Tübingen, Germany, who has for decades been Benedict’s most formidable critic on the left. A Catholic priest, Father Küng was forbidden by the church to teach theology. The revocation seemed to move the papacy further toward intellectual concerns rather than the daily lives of Catholics. Under Benedict, the church “risks becoming a Vatican hierarchy disincarnated from faith,” said Ezio Mauro, the editor of the center-left daily La Repubblica, who writes on church-state issues. Father Küng agreed. Benedict “does not see that he is alienating himself from the larger part of the Catholic Church and Christianity,” he said. “He doesn’t see the real world. He only sees the Vatican world.” A version of this news analysis appears in print on , on page A6 of the New York edition with the headline: Healing Schism, Pope Risks Another. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Movies   Critics’ Picks: ‘Midnight Cowboy’. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Critics’ Picks Critics’ Picks: ‘Midnight Cowboy’ By Gabe Johnson | Jan. 26, 2009 | 2:57 A.O. Scott reviews John Schlesinger's 1969 Oscar-winner for best picture. Show More PlaylistUp Next in Critics’ Picks Next →   Critics’ Picks3:39 Critics’ Picks: ‘The Rules of the Game’   Critics’ Picks4:55 Critics’ Picks: ‘The Thin Red Line’   Critics’ Picks3:43 Critics’ Picks: ‘Pulp Fiction’   Critics’ Picks3:14 Critics’ Picks: The Manchurian Candidate   Critics’ Picks3:49 Critics’ Picks: ‘Hannah and Her Sisters’   Critics’ Picks3:09 Critics’ Picks: ‘The Public Enemy’   Critics’ Picks2:53 Critics’ Picks: ‘The Wild Bunch’   Critics’ Picks3:20 Critics’ Picks: ‘Detour’   Critics’ Picks3:29 Critics’ Picks: ’25th Hour’   Critics’ Picks2:36 Critics’ Picks: ‘Au Hasard Balthazar’ © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Obituary   Sybil Moses, 69, Judge; Prosecuted 'Dr. X'. Sybil R. Moses, who in the 1970s was the prosecuting attorney in the ''Dr. X'' trial and later became a judge in New Jersey, died Friday at her home in Englewood, N.J. She was 69. The cause was breast cancer, said her son, Jonathan. The Dr. X trial, which began on Feb. 26, 1978, in Superior Court in Hackensack and lasted eight months, involved Dr. Mario E. Jascalevich, of Riverdell Hospital in Oradell, N.J., whom colleagues suspected of killing at least nine patients by injecting the muscle relaxant curare into their intravenous tubing. In a series of investigative articles that led New Jersey prosecutors to look into the case, M. A. Farber of The New York Times concealed Dr. Jascalevich's identity with the name Dr. X until he was indicted on murder charges. Ms. Moses, just four years out of law school, led the prosecution in a highly contentious trial. It turned into a First Amendment battle and a test of New Jersey's shield law protecting journalists and their sources when Mr. Farber, defying a subpoena, refused to turn over his notes to the court and spent 39 days in jail. Ms. Moses argued that Dr. Jascalevich, hoping to expand his power base at the hospital, had murdered patients to make the doctors caring for them seem incompetent. The defense argued that Dr. Jascalevich, whose locker at the hospital had been found to contain half-empty vials of curare, used curare in experiments on dogs, and that he was being victimized by colleagues hoping to cover up their own mistakes. He was found not guilty. Sybil Rappaport was born in Newark and grew up in Irvington, N.J. After graduating from the University of Maryland, she earned a master's degree from the University of Pennsylvania and a law degree from Rutgers. She tried nearly four dozen cases an assistant prosecutor in Bergen County, most of them successfully. In 1979, she became a state administrative law judge, and in 1987 was named a Superior Court judge. In 1997, she became the first woman to be appointed an assignment judge, a post she held until retiring last year. In addition to her son, Jonathan, of Manhattan, Judge Moses is survived by her husband, Stephen; a sister, Shelah Landsman of Potomac, Md.; a daughter, Jennifer, of London; and five grandchildren. In August 2003, Judge Moses ruled that the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey had to make public the transcripts of radio transmissions among employees of the authority in the World Trade Center on Sept. 11, 2001. PHOTO: Sybil R. Moses in 1978. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARL T. GOSSETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers. New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse.
Science   The Economy’s Toll, Another Salmonella Fatality and a River of Drugs. Advertisement Advertisement By RONI CARYN RABINJAN. 26, 2009 New Fatality in Salmonella Outbreak The death of an elderly woman in Minnesota over the weekend brings to seven the number of fatalities linked to a salmonella outbreak, USA Today reports. The salmonella contamination has been traced to peanut paste and peanut butter from a processing plant in Georgia, which has stopped operating and has laid off its 50 employees. Economic Woes Sapping Health, Physicians Say Boston doctors say the difficult economy is taking a toll on patients' health in the form of weight gain, skipped visits and uncontrolled high blood pressure that may be related to stress, The Boston Globe reports. Mental health visits are also up. All Children Should Receive Hib Vaccine, C.D.C. Says Officials at the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention are reminding parents to make sure children receive Hib immunizations and boosters after five children became ill and a seven-month-old died in Minnesota last year. Hib, short for Haemophilus influenzae Type B, can cause meningitis, inflammation of the tissue surrounding the brain and spinal cord. Fewer Hospital Beds for Children in California Dozens of hospitals in California have scaled down or closed their pediatric units over the past decade, and the state lost more than 800 children's hospital beds between 1998 and 2007, a 19 percent drop, The Los Angeles Times reports. A children's health policy researcher at Stanford University says the cuts, driven by financial pressure, were apparently made without statewide coordination or monitoring. Drugs Flow Into Indian River From Factories Upstream Wastewater from drug plants that's dumped into streams in India contains massive amounts of pharmaceuticals, including high levels of antibiotics and drugs used to treat high blood pressure, heart disease, sexually transmitted infections and depression, The Associated Press reports. The plants produce drugs exported to others part of the world, including the United States. Go to Home Page »
Sports   Who Will Win the Super Bowl?. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content Skip to navigation View mobile version The New York Times Sports|Who Will Win the Super Bowl? Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Supported by Sports | POINT/COUNTERPOINT Who Will Win the Super Bowl? Gabriel Dance, Dave Frank, R.M. Schneiderman/The New York Times and Illustration SplashlightJAN. 26, 2009 Continue reading the main story Share This Page Continue reading the main story Continue reading the main story What's Next Loading... Go to Home Page » Site Index The New York Times Site Index Navigation News World U.S. Politics N.Y. Business Tech Science Health Sports Education Obituaries Today's Paper Corrections Opinion Today's Opinion Op-Ed Columnists Editorials Contributing Writers Op-Ed Contributors Opinionator Letters Sunday Review Taking Note Room for Debate Public Editor Video: Opinion Arts Today's Arts Art & Design ArtsBeat Books Dance Movies Music N.Y.C. Events Guide Television Theater Video: Arts Living Automobiles Crossword Food Education Fashion & Style Health Jobs Magazine N.Y.C. Events Guide Real Estate T Magazine Travel Weddings & Celebrations Listings & More Classifieds Tools & Services Times Topics Public Editor N.Y.C. Events Guide Blogs Multimedia Photography Video NYT Store Times Journeys Subscribe Manage My Account Subscribe Subscribe Times Insider Home Delivery Digital Subscriptions NYT Opinion Crossword Email Newsletters Alerts Gift Subscriptions Corporate Subscriptions Education Rate Mobile Applications Replica Edition International New York Times Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Travel   Laos: A Rugged Paradise. Subscribe Now Subscribe campaign: inyt2015_bar1_digi_usd_4L9UF -- 277474, creative: inyt2015_bar1_digi_buttononly_usd_4L9UF -- 406560, page: www.nytimes.com/slideshow/yr/mo/day/travel/0126-laos.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/slideshow/yr/mo/day/travel, position: Bar1 Log In Register Now Help More Slide Shows Travel Search Slide Shows All Multimedia » Close Laos: A Rugged Paradise « Previous 1 of 15 Next » With its fledgling infrastructure and rural landscape, Laos is one Southeast Asian nation that's stayed off the radar of most globe-trotting tourists, offering an untouched glimpse of traditional life. Left, a farmer leads water buffalo out of the Mekong River. Credit: Josh Haner/The New York Times Related Travel Guide: Laos © 2014 The New York Times Company Site Map Privacy Your Ad Choices Advertise Terms of Sale Terms of Service Work With Us RSS Help Contact Us Site Feedback campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_personalized_isEDU_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/slideshow/yr/mo/day/travel/0126-laos.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/slideshow/yr/mo/day/travel, position: Inv1
Books   A Conversation With John Updike. Channels & Shows Home Search Culture Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Culture A Conversation With John Updike By Matthew Orr | Jan. 27, 2009 | 7:56 In October 2008, John Updike spoke with Sam Tanenhaus, the editor of the Book Review, about the craft of fiction and the art of writing. Show More PlaylistUp Next in Culture Next → This Week’s Movies Culture3:28 This Week’s Movies | May 6, 2016   U.S.0:22 Obama, Dancing With the Star (Wars)   Opinion6:58 Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics   Fashion1:13 Red Carpet Arrivals at the Met Ball   Culture3:07 Tony Nominations Are Announced This Week’s Movies Culture3:28 This Week’s Movies | April 29, 2016 Anatomy of a Scene Culture2:41 Anatomy | ‘The Man Who Knew Infinity’   Europe0:29 Big Ben to Be Silenced   Food1:12 Tomatillo Pineapple Salsa | Taste Makers   Taste Makers6:01 Nigerian Food, Crash-and-Burn Style | Taste Makers © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Business   Suspect in Ponzi Scheme Surrenders on Long Island. Advertisement Advertisement By BLOOMBERG NEWSJAN. 27, 2009 A New York businessman sought by federal authorities in connection with a suspected $380 million Ponzi scheme has been arrested and charged with one count of mail fraud. The businessman, Nicholas Cosmo, founder of Agape World in Hauppauge, surrendered at the Long Island Rail Road train station in Hicksville, N.Y. He was taken in handcuffs to the United States Postal Inspection Service in Hicksville Monday night. “Mr. Cosmo has voluntarily surrendered to the authorities,” said his lawyers, Steven D. Feldman and Arthur G. Jakoby, of the New York-based law firm of Herrick Feinstein. “He intends to work with them to allay investors’ concerns.” Agents with the Postal Inspection Service and F.B.I. unsuccessfully sought to arrest Cosmo earlier today at his office. They executed a search warrant of the premises and could be seen carrying out boxes of documents from the office. Advertisement Al Weissmann, a Postal Service inspector, said Mr. Cosmo was arrested on one count of mail fraud that is punishable by up to 20 years in prison and a fine of as much as $1 million. Mr. Cosmo is expected to be held overnight and appear Tuesday in federal court in Central Islip, said James Margolin, a spokesman for the F.B.I.’s New York office. In 1997, while working as a stockbroker at Continental Broker-Dealer Corporation in Carle Place, N.Y., Mr. Cosmo was accused of misappropriating funds, according to court records. He pleaded guilty to a single federal charge in 1999 and was sentenced to 21 months in prison and ordered to pay at least $135,000 in restitution. He was also told to undergo “extensive gambling therapy” while in prison, according to court records. In the earlier case, the NASD found Cosmo “inserted the name Cosmo and Associates to replace a public customer’s name,” on a transaction, according to court filings. He was censured, fined more than $68,000 and barred from associating with NASD members. While Agape World claims that it has been a “private bridge lender” since 1999, federal Bureau of Prisons records show that Cosmo was not released from the federal penitentiary in Allenwood, Pa., until Aug. 23, 2000. The suspected Ponzi scheme involved investors with Agape World, according to Bloomberg News. A version of this article appears in print on , on page B3 of the New York edition with the headline: Suspect in Ponzi Scheme Surrenders on Long Island. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Food   Mark Bittman. Channels & Shows Home Search Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Mark Bittman, author of “The Minimalist” and “How to Cook Everything,” shares the kitchen with some of the most influential and inventive chefs from around the globe. Recent Episodes in Mark Bittman   Mark Bittman: California Matters 5:18 Chop Suey’s Next Wave   Mark Bittman: California Matters 4:29 A Walk on the Wild (Edibles) Side Mark Bittman 2:41 The Scramble: A Simple Greek Lunch Mark Bittman 4:12 The Rollout: An Ikarian Greens Pie Mark Bittman 2:32 Lorna Sass’s Pressure-Cooker Meatballs Mark Bittman 3:05 Claudia Fleming's Apple Crumb Crostata Mark Bittman 3:15 Danny Bowien’s Thanksgiving Pastrami Mark Bittman 2:38 André Soltner's Pumpkin Soup Mark Bittman 2:59 April Bloomfield's Clam Chowder Show more videos from Mark Bittman Most Popular 1 World A Dyeing Life 2 Opinion Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics 3 U.S. Copwatch vs. Cops: After Freddie Gray 4 Opinion A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race 5 U.S. Best of Obama's Correspondents' Dinner Speech 6 Opinion Manufacturing China’s Future 7 U.S. Trump’s History of Encouraging Violence 8 U.S. Welfare and the Politics of Poverty 9 Opinion I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked 10 World Thai King Makes Rare Appearance © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Foreign   Iran: Penalties for a Mixed Game. Advertisement Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSJAN. 27, 2009 The first soccer game involving both sexes since the 1979 Islamic Revolution led to punishment on Monday, as a soccer club said it had suspended three officials involved and handed out fines. Iran’s Islamic rules ban physical contact between unrelated men and women, and Iranian women are barred from attending soccer games when men play. The officials, a coach and two managers, first denied the game took place, but cellphone videos of the game were used as evidence against them, the newspaper Vatan-e-Emrooz reported. The game was last Tuesday in Tehran between the club’s women’s team and its boys’ team. The boys won, 7 to 0. A version of this brief appears in print on , on page A10 of the New York edition with the headline: Iran: Penalties For a Mixed Game. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Movies   The Carpetbagger. Channels & Shows Home Search Culture Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Get behind the scenes of Hollywood’s awards season, with close-up looks at Oscar-nominated films and exclusive red-carpet access to the hottest actors, actresses and directors. Recent Episodes in The Carpetbagger The Carpetbagger Culture 3:34 Dressing ‘Inherent Vice’ The Carpetbagger Culture 3:01 Patricia Arquette Grows Into ‘Boyhood’ The Carpetbagger Culture 2:09 Sundance in Slow-Mo   Clothes and Character 2:56 Dressing the Hawkings   Clothes and Character 3:36 In ‘Selma,’ Trench Coats Amid Protests The Carpetbagger Culture 2:26 David Oyelowo and ‘Selma’ The Carpetbagger Culture 4:45 Common and John Legend Perform ‘Glory’ The Carpetbagger Culture 3:02 Patti Smith’s Cinematic Lullaby The Carpetbagger Culture 2:22 Big Eyes, Big Lies Show more videos from The Carpetbagger Most Popular 1 World A Dyeing Life 2 Opinion Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics 3 U.S. Copwatch vs. Cops: After Freddie Gray 4 Opinion A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race 5 U.S. Best of Obama's Correspondents' Dinner Speech 6 Opinion Manufacturing China’s Future 7 U.S. Trump’s History of Encouraging Violence 8 U.S. Welfare and the Politics of Poverty 9 Opinion I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked 10 World Thai King Makes Rare Appearance © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Science   New Malaria Pills, Discounted Hospital Fees and a Bird Flu Fatality. Advertisement Advertisement By RONI CARYN RABINJAN. 27, 2009 New Malaria Medicine Easier for Children to Swallow Malaria pills usually are bitter and too large for children to swallow, but drug maker Novartis and the nonprofit Medicines for Malaria Venture have developed a small cherry-flavored pill that easily dissolves, The Wall Street Journal says. The next challenge: getting the medicine to remote villages in Africa. Starbucks Tosses Products With Peanut Butter Starbucks is removing all products containing peanut butter from store shelves, even though it did not come from the plant responsible for the salmonella outbreak. The retailer says it is not willing to take chances and has pulled granola bars, peanut butter cookies and chocolate peanut butter oat bars, Dbtechno.com reports. Chicago Hospitals Discounting Bills for the Uninsured Some Chicago area hospitals are discounting bills for patients who have lost their jobs and health insurance, a Chicago Tribune blogger reports. Rush University Medical Center will reduce hospital bills by 50 percent for the uninsured, regardless of income or assets, and Loyola University Medical Center has lowered some bills by 40 percent. Alcohol-Related Fatalities Decline Slightly in the U.K. The number of alcohol-related deaths has begun to fall in the United Kingdom after steady increases for many years, the BBC reports. The rate dropped slightly from 13.4 per 100,000 in 2006 to 13.3 per 100,000 in 2007, but the figure is still nearly double what it was in 1991. Older men are most at risk. A New Bird Flu Fatality in China China says a young man died of the H5N1 strain of bird flu on Monday, bringing to five the number of deaths this month. The 18-year-old was admitted to the hospital on Jan. 24, Reuters reports. He had had contact with dead poultry before he fell ill. Go to Home Page »
Sports   Alabama Coach Resigns. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content Skip to navigation View mobile version The New York Times College Basketball|Alabama Coach Resigns Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Supported by College Basketball | Sports Briefing | College Basketball Alabama Coach Resigns By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSJAN. 27, 2009 Continue reading the main story Share This Page Continue reading the main story Mark Gottfried resigned as Alabama’s basketball coach Monday, leaving in the middle of his 11th season amid criticism of the team’s play and the departure of a star player. He will be replaced by the assistant Philip Pearson. Alabama is 12-7. Gottfried’s teams have missed the N.C.A.A. tournament the last two years, and he was criticized over the recent departure of point guard Ronald Steele. The university said Steele departed because of an injury, but Steele said there was more to his decision. A version of this brief appears in print on , on page B16 of the New York edition with the headline: Alabama Coach Resigns. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Continue reading the main story What's Next Loading... Go to Home Page » Site Index The New York Times Site Index Navigation News World U.S. Politics N.Y. Business Tech Science Health Sports Education Obituaries Today's Paper Corrections Opinion Today's Opinion Op-Ed Columnists Editorials Contributing Writers Op-Ed Contributors Opinionator Letters Sunday Review Taking Note Room for Debate Public Editor Video: Opinion Arts Today's Arts Art & Design ArtsBeat Books Dance Movies Music N.Y.C. Events Guide Television Theater Video: Arts Living Automobiles Crossword Food Education Fashion & Style Health Jobs Magazine N.Y.C. Events Guide Real Estate T Magazine Travel Weddings & Celebrations Listings & More Classifieds Tools & Services Times Topics Public Editor N.Y.C. Events Guide Blogs Multimedia Photography Video NYT Store Times Journeys Subscribe Manage My Account Subscribe Subscribe Times Insider Home Delivery Digital Subscriptions NYT Opinion Crossword Email Newsletters Alerts Gift Subscriptions Corporate Subscriptions Education Rate Mobile Applications Replica Edition International New York Times Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Arts   A Preview of the New Alice Tully Hall. Subscribe Now Subscribe campaign: inyt2015_bar1_digi_usd_4L9UF -- 277474, creative: inyt2015_bar1_digi_buttononly_usd_4L9UF -- 406560, page: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/arts/20090120_TULLY_SLIDESHOW.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/arts, position: Bar1 Log In Register Now Help More Slide Shows Arts Search Slide Shows All Multimedia » Close A Preview of the New Alice Tully Hall « Previous 1 of 7 Next » Sign In to E-Mail Dan Wakin writes: With giddiness and glee, musicians tested the acoustics of the newly renovated Alice Tully Hall on Tuesday, less than a month before it reopens after a $159 million, 22-month upgrade, a major milestone in Lincoln Center’s $1.2 billion remaking. Credit: Todd Heisler/The New York Times Related Article: Musicians Hear Heaven in Tully Hall’s New Sound Times Topic: Lincoln Center for The Performing Arts Home Arts © 2011 The New York Times Company Privacy Policy Your Ad Choices Contact Us Help Work for Us Site Map campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_personalized_isEDU_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/arts/20090120_TULLY_SLIDESHOW.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/arts, position: Inv1
Books   John Updike: A Life in Letters. Channels & Shows Home Search Culture Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Culture John Updike: A Life in Letters By None None | Jan. 28, 2009 | 85:10 Culture writer and former editor of the New York Times Book Review Charles McGrath's wide-ranging conversation with John Updike at the Times Center in New York on October 28, 2008. Show More PlaylistUp Next in Culture Next → This Week’s Movies Culture3:28 This Week’s Movies | May 6, 2016   U.S.0:22 Obama, Dancing With the Star (Wars)   Opinion6:58 Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics   Fashion1:13 Red Carpet Arrivals at the Met Ball   Culture3:07 Tony Nominations Are Announced This Week’s Movies Culture3:28 This Week’s Movies | April 29, 2016 Anatomy of a Scene Culture2:41 Anatomy | ‘The Man Who Knew Infinity’   Europe0:29 Big Ben to Be Silenced   Food1:12 Tomatillo Pineapple Salsa | Taste Makers   Taste Makers6:01 Nigerian Food, Crash-and-Burn Style | Taste Makers © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Business   Correction. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content Skip to navigation View mobile version The New York Times Business Day|Correction Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Supported by Business Day Correction JAN. 27, 2009 Continue reading the main story Share This Page Continue reading the main story The Popular Demand listing in the Most Wanted chart on Monday about online viewers of the presidential inauguration misstated the proportion of viewers who saw the event at CNN Web sites. CNN.com and the network’s online video site attracted the largest share of online viewers at 25.1 percent, but they did not draw “the majority” of online viewers. A version of this correction appears in print on , on page A4 of the New York edition with the headline: Corrections. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Continue reading the main story What's Next Loading... Go to Home Page » Site Index The New York Times Site Index Navigation News World U.S. Politics N.Y. Business Tech Science Health Sports Education Obituaries Today's Paper Corrections Opinion Today's Opinion Op-Ed Columnists Editorials Contributing Writers Op-Ed Contributors Opinionator Letters Sunday Review Taking Note Room for Debate Public Editor Video: Opinion Arts Today's Arts Art & Design ArtsBeat Books Dance Movies Music N.Y.C. Events Guide Television Theater Video: Arts Living Automobiles Crossword Food Education Fashion & Style Health Jobs Magazine N.Y.C. Events Guide Real Estate T Magazine Travel Weddings & Celebrations Listings & More Classifieds Tools & Services Times Topics Public Editor N.Y.C. Events Guide Blogs Multimedia Photography Video NYT Store Times Journeys Subscribe Manage My Account Subscribe Subscribe Times Insider Home Delivery Digital Subscriptions NYT Opinion Crossword Email Newsletters Alerts Gift Subscriptions Corporate Subscriptions Education Rate Mobile Applications Replica Edition International New York Times Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Food   Bocuse d'Or Wraps Up in Lyon, France. Channels & Shows Home Search Food Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Food Bocuse d'Or Wraps Up in Lyon, France By Simon Marks | Jan. 28, 2009 | 3:32 Chefs from 24 countries competed in the Bocuse d'Or, a competition considered by organizers the Olympics of cooking. Show More PlaylistUp Next in Food Next → Melissa Clark Food2:08 Coconut Cluster Granola   International1:04 McDonald’s Copycat in Separatist Ukraine Melissa Clark Food1:51 Green Garlic Tabbouleh   Food1:46 Beer-Brined Roast Chicken | Taste Makers   Taste Makers6:32 Finding Your Flavors in the Kitchen | Taste Makers   Food1:12 Tomatillo Pineapple Salsa | Taste Makers   Taste Makers5:40 Growing Organics ‘Sin Fronteras’ | Taste Makers   Food1:16 Jollof Rice | Taste Makers   Taste Makers6:01 Nigerian Food, Crash-and-Burn Style | Taste Makers Melissa Clark Food2:33 Chicken and Artichokes © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Foreign   France: Gales Depose a Regal Tree. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content Skip to navigation View mobile version The New York Times Europe|France: Gales Depose a Regal Tree Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Supported by Europe | World Briefing | Europe France: Gales Depose a Regal Tree By MAÏA de la BAUMEJAN. 27, 2009 Continue reading the main story Share This Page Continue reading the main story Queen Marie Antoinette’s weeping beech, which survived the French Revolution, was toppled after gales swept across France and Spain over the weekend. The purple, 82-foot-tall tree was planted at the Versailles Palace in 1786 as a gift to Marie Antoinette. A version of this brief appears in print on , on page A10 of the New York edition with the headline: France: Gales Depose a Regal Tree. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Continue reading the main story What's Next Loading... Go to Home Page » Site Index The New York Times Site Index Navigation News World U.S. Politics N.Y. Business Tech Science Health Sports Education Obituaries Today's Paper Corrections Opinion Today's Opinion Op-Ed Columnists Editorials Contributing Writers Op-Ed Contributors Opinionator Letters Sunday Review Taking Note Room for Debate Public Editor Video: Opinion Arts Today's Arts Art & Design ArtsBeat Books Dance Movies Music N.Y.C. Events Guide Television Theater Video: Arts Living Automobiles Crossword Food Education Fashion & Style Health Jobs Magazine N.Y.C. Events Guide Real Estate T Magazine Travel Weddings & Celebrations Listings & More Classifieds Tools & Services Times Topics Public Editor N.Y.C. Events Guide Blogs Multimedia Photography Video NYT Store Times Journeys Subscribe Manage My Account Subscribe Subscribe Times Insider Home Delivery Digital Subscriptions NYT Opinion Crossword Email Newsletters Alerts Gift Subscriptions Corporate Subscriptions Education Rate Mobile Applications Replica Edition International New York Times Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Movies   Daily Baggage: Jan. 28. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Daily Baggage Daily Baggage: Jan. 28 By David Carr | Jan. 28, 2009 | 1:32 The Bagger picks Best Picture early in the race. Show More PlaylistUp Next in Daily Baggage ← PreviousNext →   Daily Baggage1:38 Daily Baggage: Feb. 11   Daily Baggage1:19 Daily Baggage: Feb. 10   Daily Baggage1:55 Daily Baggage: Feb. 9   Daily Baggage1:58 Daily Baggage: Feb. 6   Daily Baggage1:19 Daily Baggage: Feb. 5   Daily Baggage1:43 Daily Baggage: Feb. 4   Daily Baggage1:20 Daily Baggage: Feb. 3   Daily Baggage1:17 Super Bowl and Oscars, The Great Uniters   Daily Baggage1:27 Daily Baggage: Jan. 30   Daily Baggage2:10 Daily Baggage: Jan. 29   Now Playing Daily Baggage1:32 Daily Baggage: Jan. 28   Daily Baggage1:50 Daily Baggage: Jan. 15   Daily Baggage1:27 Daily Baggage: Jan. 14   Daily Baggage1:44 Daily Baggage: Jan. 13   Daily Baggage1:39 Daily Baggage: Jan. 12   Daily Baggage1:23 Daily Baggage: Jan. 9   Daily Baggage1:53 Daily Baggage: Jan. 8   Daily Baggage2:13 Daily Baggage: Jan. 7   Daily Baggage2:21 Daily Baggage: Jan. 6   Daily Baggage1:40 Daily Baggage: Jan. 5   Daily Baggage Daily Baggage: Dec. 18 © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Obituary   John Updike, a Lyrical Writer of the Ordinary, Is Dead at 76. John Updike, the kaleidoscopically gifted writer whose quartet of Rabbit Angstrom novels highlighted so vast and protean a body of fiction, verse, essays and criticism as to place him in the first rank of American men of letters, died on Tuesday. He was 76 and lived in Beverly Farms, Mass. The cause was cancer, according to a statement by Alfred A. Knopf, his publisher. A spokesman said Mr. Updike died at a hospice outside Boston. Of Mr. Updike's 61 books, perhaps none captured the imagination of the book-reading public as those about ordinary citizens in small-town and urban settings. His best-known protagonist, Harry (Rabbit) Angstrom, first appears as a former high-school basketball star trapped in a loveless marriage and a sales job he hates. Through the four novels whose titles bear his nickname -- ''Rabbit, Run,'' ''Rabbit Redux,'' ''Rabbit Is Rich'' and ''Rabbit at Rest'' -- the author traces the sad life of this undistinguished middle-American against the background of the last half-century's major events. ''My subject is the American Protestant small town middle class,'' Mr. Updike told Jane Howard in a 1966 interview for Life magazine. ''I like middles,'' he continued. ''It is in middles that extremes clash, where ambiguity restlessly rules.'' From his earliest short stories, set in the fictional town of Olinger, Pa., which he once described as ''a square mile of middle-class homes physically distinguished by a bend in the central avenue that compels some side streets to deviate from the grid,'' Mr. Updike sought the clash of extremes in everyday dramas of marriage, sex and divorce. The only wealth he bestowed on his subjects lay in the richness of his descriptive language, the detailed fineness of which won him comparisons with painters like Vermeer and Andrew Wyeth. This detail was often so rich that it inspired two schools of thought on Mr. Updike's fiction -- those who responded to his descriptive prose as to a kind of poetry, a sensuous engagement with the world, and those who argued that he wasted beautiful language on nothing. The latter position was perhaps most acutely defined by James Wood in an essay, ''John Updike's Complacent God,'' in his collection ''The Broken Estate: Essays on Literature and Belief'' (Random House, 1999). Mr. Wood attributed the author's ''lyric capacities'' to his ''particular loyalty to the Protestant theologian Karl Barth.'' He argued that for Mr. Updike, because he accepts Barth's belief that God confers grace through the gift of creation, description alone of that creation is sufficient to affirm his faith. But description may not be enough for readers who don't share Mr. Updike's faith, Mr. Wood suggests. ''He is a prose writer of great beauty,'' Mr. Wood wrote, ''but that prose confronts one with the question of whether beauty is enough, and whether beauty always conveys all that a novelist must convey.'' Comments like these did not deter Mr. Updike from plowing ahead with his work, turning out three pages a day of fiction, essays, criticism or verse, and proving the maxim that several pages a day was at least a book a year and would add up to many dozens of books in a lifetime. ''I would write ads for deodorants or labels for catsup bottles, if I had to,'' he told The Paris Review in 1967. ''The miracle of turning inklings into thoughts and thoughts into words and words into metal and print and ink never palls for me.'' His essays and criticism alone filled more than a dozen volumes, and ranged from ''Golf Dreams: Writings on Art'' (1996) to ''Just Looking: Essays on Art'' (1989) and ''Still Looking: Essays on American Art'' (2005) to ''Self-Consciousness: Memoirs'' (1989) to his famous piece on the baseball star Ted Williams's last game, ''Hub Fans Bid Kid Adieu'' (1977), which first appeared in The New Yorker on Oct. 22, 1960. While his vast output of poetry tended toward light verse, in ''Midpoint and Other Poems'' (1969), the title work undertakes a self-examination at age 35, comically combining a homage to past great poets, autobiography and experimental typography in what the author called ''a joke on the antique genre of the long poem.'' The poem concludes: Born laughing, I've believed in the absurd, Which brought me this far; henceforth, if I can, I must impersonate a serious man. As his fiction matured, Mr. Updike's prose grew leaner and more muscular, and his novels waxed more exotic in form, locale and subject matter, especially in ''The Coup'' (1978), set in an imaginary African country; ''Brazil'' (1994), a venture in magic realism; ''Toward the End of Time'' (1997), whose story occurs in 2020, following a war between the United States and China; ''Gertrude and Claudius'' (2000), about Hamlet's mother and uncle, and ''The Terrorist'' (2006), a fictional study of a convert to Islam who tries to blow up the Lincoln Tunnel. Then there were the short stories, which he turned out by the several hundreds, most of them first appearing in The New Yorker. It was here, at this length, that he exercised his exquisitely sharp eye for the minutiae of domestic routine and the conflicts that animated it for him -- between present satisfaction and future possibility, between sex and spirituality, and between the beauty of creation and the looming threat of death, which he summed up famously in the concluding sentence of ''Pigeon Feathers,'' the title story of his second collection (1962). Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers. New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse.
Science   Octuplets’ Prospects, Perfect Recall and the Unsanitary Peanut Plant. Advertisement Advertisement By RONI CARYN RABINJAN. 28, 2009 Cholera Epidemic Grows Even Larger in Zimbabwe World Health Organization officials say the cholera epidemic in Zimbabwe is "out of control," killing almost 3,000 people and sickening 56,123 more, Agence France-Presse reports. WHO officials say the epidemic is fast approaching what they call the "worst case scenario" of 60,000 deaths. F.D.A.: Peanut Plant Managers Shipped Goods Despite Contamination A Georgia peanut processing plant that was the source of salmonella-contaminated peanut butter and paste knowingly shipped products that managers knew might be tainted, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration said yesterday. There were a dozen instances in 2007 and 2008 when the firm identified salmonella in its plant but shipped products anyway, according to the agency. Octuplets at Risk for Medical Problems, Experts Say The birth of octuplets in California has raised eyebrows among infertility specialists around the country, who say such pregnancies are very risky and put the infants at risk for a lifetime of medical problems, The Los Angeles Times says. The parents of the octuplets have not been identified, but experts say it is unlikely that eight babies were conceived without fertility treatment. So far the babies, born at 30 weeks, are doing well. Scientists Find Man With an Extraordinary Memory Researchers have identified a California man who is the fourth person scientists say has an extremely rare gift for memory. He can recall in detail most days of his life, as well as the dates of public events, USA Today reports. M.R.I. scans have revealed abnormally large areas in the brains of people who have these kinds of abilities. Go to Home Page »
Sports   Sports. Sports Search slide shows All Multimedia » next 1 of 9 Alternative Super Bowl Logos Sign In to E-Mail "The Super Bowl always wants to be bigger, glitzier and more spectacular than every Super Bowl preceding. But with the United States in its current recession, major advertising sponsors pulling out and Tampa having very little hosting money, this Super Bowl will need a government stimulus package to be all it wants to be." -- Michael Strassburger, Modern Dog Design Co., Seattle related Article: For XLIII Years, the Big Game as Art Form Home Sports Log In Register Now Copyright   The New York Times Company Privacy Policy Contact Us Help Work for Us Site Map campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_personalized_isEDU_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/slideshow/yr/mo/day/sports/20090128-logos-slideshow_index.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/slideshow/yr/mo/day/sports, position: Inv1
Arts   Arts. Arts Search slide shows All Multimedia » next 1 of 6 Obituary: Aldo Crommelynck Sign In to E-Mail Aldo Crommelynck, a master printmaker who coaxed the best out of European artists including Picasso, Braque and Matisse, and later helped helped younger artists like Jim Dine and Jasper Johns express their visions on paper, died on Dec. 22 at his home in Paris. He was 77. Photo: Pace Editions, Inc., circa 1994 related Article: Aldo Crommelynck, Master Printer for Prominent Artists, Is Dead at 77 Home Arts Log In Register Now Copyright   The New York Times Company Privacy Policy Contact Us Help Work for Us Site Map campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_personalized_isEDU_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/slideshow/yr/mo/day/arts/20090129CROMM_index.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/slideshow/yr/mo/day/arts, position: Inv1
Business   The Twitter Experiment. Advertisement Advertisement By DAVID POGUEJAN. 29, 2009 A couple weeks ago, I wrote about my bumpy initiation into the world of Twitter. It's sort of a complicated cross between a chat room and private e-mail. And it's both an interrupty time drain and an incredible source of real-time connection and information. Some of you blasted me for impugning Twitter's greatness. Some of you hailed me as a seer of its imminent demise. (A few of you thought my assessment was right on.) Today, I thought I'd follow up by sharing the sweet, funny, interesting results of a Twitter experiment. It's too entertaining for me to keep to myself. Yesterday, I spoke at a conference in Las Vegas. The topic was Web 2.0, with all of its free-speech, global-collaboration ramifications. At one point, I figured that the best way to explain Twitter was to demonstrate it, live, on the big screen at the front of the ballroom. So I flipped out of PowerPoint and typed this to my Twitter followers: "I need a cure for hiccups... RIGHT NOW! Help?" Advertisement I hit Enter. I told the audience that we would start getting replies in 15 seconds, but it didn't even take that long. Here are some of the replies that began scrolling up the screen: * florian: Put a cold spoon on your back - that's what my grandfather would do for hiccups. * megs_pvd: Put your head between your knees and swallow hard. * bethbellor: Packets of sugar. * jfraga: BOOOOOOOOOOO! (How many of those did you get?) [Answer: about 20.] * michaeljoel: drop a lit match in a glass of water to extinguish it. take out match. drink water. * jbelmont: Simple. Just hold your breath until Windows 7 is released. * rgalloway: Have someone slowly & softly count backwards from 10-1 in Russian for you. Works every time! * warcand: check your 401K. That should scare the hiccups right out of ya! * drct: The cure for hiccups is simply to get the air out of your stomach. How is up to you. * kashaziz: Take a glass of water, hold your breath and gulp it down. Distraction helps against hiccups. * hornsolo: Stand on your head, drink water backwards, and gurgle, "Microsoft sucks!" * aaaaiiiieeee: There's gotta be something in the App Store for it by now. Advertisement * garmstrong65: Sounds crazy, but it works. Take 9 sips of water then say, "January." Laugh now, but you'll thank me when the hiccups are gone. * ransomtech: On Twitter, they are Twiccups. * erlingmork: Peanut butter on a spoon. * squealingrat: With a popsicle stick or something clean, touch the little thing at the back of your throat. This causes the muscles to change. * bschlenker: hello from the back of the room ;-) * amysprite: plug your ears and nose and drink seven gulps of water. Difficult, but do-able. Works like a charm EVERY time. * SullivanHome: With right hand, reach around to behind left shoulder tightly and grab some back flesh, hold for up to a minute and no hiccups. * jillgee: Promise yourself something you really, really want (and mean it) if you do hiccup again. It works! * assignmentdesk1: Hold your breath and go slowly thru ABC's. Then at Z, take another deep breath without exhaling. Then slowly exhale. * DavidWms: Drink out of far side of water glass (best done over sink). Works every time. * enrevanche: Dry-swallow a spoon of granulated sugar. The trick is to overwhelm the overstimulated vagus nerve (causing hiccups) with new input. * JuanluR: eat a full spoon of crushed ice. * Chiron1: I take large sips of bourbon. It doesn't stop the hiccups, but I stop caring! Advertisement * chadrem: hold your breath until you pass out. Whenever you wake up, no more hiccups! * tiffanyanderson: Rub both of your ear lobes at the same time. Hiccups will go away. :^D * tommertron: The best way I've found is to just relax and try to forget about them. I find stressing out about them makes it worse. * SocialMediaSabs: try drinking a cup of water with a paper napkin over it - I swear it works! Has there ever been a wittier, smarter bunch (or a better collection of hiccup cures)? The audience and I were marveling and laughing at the same time. This was it: harnessing the power of the Web, the collective wisdom of strangers, in real time! The Twitterers of the world did not let us down. (And yes, I realize that this demo might not be as effective if you have, say, 20 followers instead of hundreds.) Next, I typed into my Twitter box: "Thank you all. I don't really have hiccups, but was demo'ing Twitter in front 1000 people. You did great!" This time, only some of the responses were upbeat. Some people said, either with good humor or with irritation, that they felt used: * jhatton1980: Keep it up, and you'll be the Pogue that twittered wolf! * sjaustin: What are we, puppets for your amusement? :-) * kitson: Not sure I appreciate being your guinea pig. * coachkiki: Ok - you got me. Smiling at the computer. I think. Hey crowd - how'd we all do? And who are all of you? Feel free to say hi! * timmym: That was pretty cheap. * chadrem: I feel so used! * MichaelS: Seems like abuse of Twitter influence. Advertisement * chashollywood: i feel like your lab rat...damn you! * thevideodog: That's like the boy who hiccuped wolf...pretty soon when you really need a cure for something, like diarrhea, no one's gonna answer! * AMassofHumanity: I thought that was an odd post for you...thx for explaining. * awillett: Did the demo mention that you'll continue getting hiccup cures for the next four days? * douglasa: Speaking in front of 1,000 people would cure my hiccups right quick. * dldnh: ah, the distant echoes of the boy who cried hiccup. * briand: might want to add "(demo)" to tweets like that. I was suspicious of the original. Don't play the community; they'll turn on you. * duanew: You used us! Shame on you! * ELROSS: Wow. People will freak out about any little thing, right? I LIKE it when people show twitter off. You gained one follower today. (To those who really did feel used, I'm sorry. I didn't know about the convention of saying "demo," and I'll certainly use that next time.) Finally, as the day wore down, a number of people posted tweets like this: * tomburka: I think it's wrong that I can't see the replies to your hiccup-cure tweet. You should blog about your twitter demo for everyone. * DyingSun: That is an amazing example of the power of Twitter! I wonder what was the crowd's reaction to that. Good questions, dear Twitterers. And now you have the answers. Go to Home Page »
Foreign   Obama Seeks Accord With Military on Iraq. Advertisement Advertisement By PETER BAKER and ALISSA J. RUBINJAN. 28, 2009 WASHINGTON — As President Obama moves to redefine the nation’s mission in Iraq, he faces a difficult choice: Is he willing to abandon a campaign promise or risk a rupture with the military? Or can he finesse the difference? Since taking office last week, Mr. Obama has recommitted to ending the war in Iraq but not to his specific campaign pledge to pull out roughly one combat brigade a month for the first 16 months of his presidency. His top commander in Iraq has proposed a slower start to the withdrawal, warning of the dangers of drawing down too quickly. On Wednesday, Mr. Obama visited the Pentagon for the first time since becoming president, and he seemed to be looking for an option that would let him stay true to his campaign promise, at least in theory, without alienating the generals. The White House indicated that Mr. Obama was open to alternatives to his 16-month time frame and emphasized that security was an important factor in his decision. “We’re no longer involved in a debate about whether, but how and when,” Robert Gibbs, the White House press secretary, said about a withdrawal from Iraq. “That’s a process the president wants to take seriously.” He added: “He wants to ensure the safety of our troops as we remove our combat brigades; wants to, as I’ve said repeatedly, provide the responsibility and the opportunity for the Iraqis to do more in governing their own country; and, as I said, to do this in a way that seeks the consultation of all those leaders.” Advertisement Among those consulted by the president was Gen. Ray Odierno, the top commander in Iraq, who has developed a plan that would move slower than Mr. Obama’s campaign timetable, by pulling out two brigades over the next six months. In an interview in Iraq on Wednesday, General Odierno suggested that it might take the rest of the year to determine exactly when United States forces could be drawn down significantly. “I believe that if we can get through the next year peacefully, with incidents about what they are today or better, I think we’re getting close to enduring stability, which enables us to really reduce,” General Odierno said as he inspected a polling center south of Baghdad in advance of provincial elections on Saturday. Advertisement General Odierno said the period between this weekend’s elections and the national elections to be held about a year from now would be critical to determining the future of Iraq. While some American forces could be withdrawn before then, he suggested that the bulk of any pullout would probably come after that. “We are going to reduce forces this year,” the general said. “It’s the right time to reduce our forces here. I believe that Iraqis are making progress. It’s time for us in some places to step back and give them more control.” He added, “What we want to do is to slowly shift our mission from one that’s focused on counterinsurgency to one that’s more focused on stability operations.” After a session at the White House last week, with General Odierno participating via secure video, Mr. Obama traveled to the Pentagon on Wednesday to meet with the service chiefs. The discussion ranged beyond Iraq and Afghanistan, covering a variety of challenges confronting the armed forces. “It was a very elevated conversation about the situation worldwide and the threats that we face and the risks that exist around the globe,” said Geoff Morrell, the Defense Department spokesman. Speaking with reporters afterward, Mr. Obama expressed concern about the “enormous pressure on our military to carry out a whole set of missions” and promised to advance “all aspects of American power to make sure that they’re not carrying the full load.” He indicated that he had not decided on his approach to Iraq. “We’re going to have some difficult decisions that we’re going to have to make surrounding Iraq and Afghanistan, most immediately,” Mr. Obama said. J. D. Crouch II, who was President Bush’s deputy national security adviser and a leading architect of the “surge” strategy, said Mr. Obama and his team would be wise to heed the military. “They don’t want Iraq to go bad because they have too many other important things to do,” he said. “They don’t want to alienate the military. And there’s something to be said that the guy who got things under control over there, Ray Odierno, probably has a good idea of what he needs.” Yet Mr. Obama faces pressure from his political base to stick to his 16-month timetable. “We voted for him because he’s going to get us out of Iraq,” said Medea Benjamin, co-founder of Code Pink, an antiwar group. “If there are some military people who feel we should stay there, they’re entitled to their opinion, but that shouldn’t be our policy.” Advertisement Eli Pariser, executive director of MoveOn.org, another organization that opposes the war, said, “We have no reason to think Obama’s backed off his campaign promises on a timeline to end the war.” Representative William D. Delahunt, a Democrat from Massachusetts and member of the Out of Iraq Caucus, said that the withdrawal should happen even faster than 16 months and that military commanders knew it could. “When they say it concerns them, there’s a certain ‘cover myself’ ” at work, he said. Others said the timetable was less important than the goal. “It helps for him to aim for it,” said Representative Ike Skelton, Democrat of Missouri and chairman of the House Armed Services Committee. “If you can draw your troops down to within the ballpark and they’re safe, that’s what counts.” In Jisr Diyala, south of Baghdad, General Odierno traveled in an armored vehicle on Wednesday to inspect preparations for Saturday’s voting. He said his focus now was on “drivers of instability” that could halt Iraq’s security gains, including Arab-Kurdish friction in northern Iraq and tension between Shiite political parties over the division of power elsewhere in the country. General Odierno said he envisioned a shift in the American mission that would occur in “five or six nodes,” where Iraqis and Americans would both have forces working with provincial reconstruction teams, other American Embassy personnel and nongovernmental organizations to help Iraqis mature as a fighting force and gain skills in civilian projects. Eventually, he said, only about one-third of the current 140,000 troops now in Iraq will be needed, but when that will happen has yet to be decided. “That’s the decision we have to make is when that happens; when do we go to that level,” he said. Under the security agreement approved by Baghdad and Washington before Mr. Obama took office, all United States forces are supposed to leave by the end of 2011 unless requested to stay by the Iraqis — a date confirmed by General Odierno, who said, “By 2011 we’ll be zero.” “We’re making progress every day,” General Odierno said. “But I still see some issues that could cause problems that I worry about. Political issues that could turn into security issues. But the longer we go, if we get through the elections, we get closer and closer to not being able to backslide.” Peter Baker reported from Washington, and Alissa J. Rubin from Baghdad. Thom Shanker contributed reporting from Washington. A version of this article appears in print on , on page A10 of the New York edition with the headline: On Iraq, Obama Seeks Common Ground With Military on Plan for Withdrawal. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Home   A Lesson in Haggling. Advertisement Advertisement By MARIANNE ROHRLICHJAN. 28, 2009 ASK ABOUT THE BASICS Is there any room in the price? Is there a discount for a floor model? IDENTIFY THE DEAL MAKER Salesclerks are sometimes allowed to negotiate, but often only the manager or owner can. Save the real haggling for the one with the power to make a deal. START WITH OPEN-ENDED LANGUAGE Though stores want commitment, do your best to stay noncommittal. DON’T FIXATE (OR DON’T LET ON IF YOU DO) If you’re clearly determined to have a particular item, you won’t have much leverage. THINK BIG Deep discounts are much likelier on expensive items and multiple-item purchases. DON’T LOWBALL Offering $500 for a $3,000 item will insult the store. Base your desired price on those of comparable, but less expensive items elsewhere. ASK ABOUT SALES Is there one coming up? If so, will the store hold an item until then or sell it to you now for the sale price?  THINK BEYOND DOLLARS Focus negotiations not just on price, but on other important issues like warranty and delivery terms. OFFER TO CLOSE THE DEAL Can you get a break if you buy the piece now and take it with you? BE PREPARED TO WALK AWAY Leave your number, however, in case the store has a change of heart. A version of this list appears in print on , on page D6 of the New York edition with the headline: It’s All About the Dance. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Movies   Daily Baggage: Jan. 29. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Daily Baggage Daily Baggage: Jan. 29 By David Carr | Jan. 29, 2009 | 2:10 The Bagger discusses Sean Penn and his performance in "Milk." Show More PlaylistUp Next in Daily Baggage ← PreviousNext →   Daily Baggage1:26 Daily Baggage: Feb. 12   Daily Baggage1:38 Daily Baggage: Feb. 11   Daily Baggage1:19 Daily Baggage: Feb. 10   Daily Baggage1:55 Daily Baggage: Feb. 9   Daily Baggage1:58 Daily Baggage: Feb. 6   Daily Baggage1:19 Daily Baggage: Feb. 5   Daily Baggage1:43 Daily Baggage: Feb. 4   Daily Baggage1:20 Daily Baggage: Feb. 3   Daily Baggage1:17 Super Bowl and Oscars, The Great Uniters   Daily Baggage1:27 Daily Baggage: Jan. 30   Now Playing Daily Baggage2:10 Daily Baggage: Jan. 29   Daily Baggage1:32 Daily Baggage: Jan. 28   Daily Baggage1:50 Daily Baggage: Jan. 15   Daily Baggage1:27 Daily Baggage: Jan. 14   Daily Baggage1:44 Daily Baggage: Jan. 13   Daily Baggage1:39 Daily Baggage: Jan. 12   Daily Baggage1:23 Daily Baggage: Jan. 9   Daily Baggage1:53 Daily Baggage: Jan. 8   Daily Baggage2:13 Daily Baggage: Jan. 7   Daily Baggage2:21 Daily Baggage: Jan. 6   Daily Baggage1:40 Daily Baggage: Jan. 5 © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Science   Being Honest About Heart Failure. Heart failure, caused by a weakening of the heart’s blood pumping capabilities, is diagnosed in more than 500,000 Americans each year. The most common causes for heart damage are coronary artery disease, high blood pressure and diabetes, but sometimes an exact cause cannot be determined. Here are five things that Dr. Stuart Russell, chief of heart failure and transplantation at Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore, believes everyone with heart failure should know.  1.Watch your diet and fluid intake. The typical American diet, often high in processed foods and canned soups, is also high in sodium. For patients with heart failure, problems develop because the body wants to hold on to extra sodium, which causes fluid to build up. Consequently, the heart has to work harder, body weight increases, the ankles and feet begin to swell, and it all leads to shortness of breath. Even if you don’t have symptoms of fluid buildup, and even if you already take a water pill, or diuretic, it pays to limit your sodium to no more than 2,000 milligrams a day. Consuming too much sodium contributes significantly to developing symptomatic heart failure, so you need to be vigilant. This means checking the sodium content of everything you eat in the course of a day. Some patients chart their daily sodium intake on a spreadsheet. A word to the wise: keep the salt shaker away from the dining table. One teaspoonful of salt has about 2,300 milligrams of sodium. Try experimenting with seasonings like black or lemon pepper or a variety of herbs and spices. And don’t forget that fresh vegetables and fruits have very little sodium. It’s going to take awhile for your taste buds to adjust to eating the low-sodium way, but a low-salt cookbook will provide you with many tips to help adapt your favorite foods to low-sodium versions. 2. Monitor your weight. With heart failure, it’s critical that you deal with your symptoms as soon as you notice them. A symptom like weight gain can indicate that your heart failure is worsening, so it is important to weigh yourself daily. Be sure to weigh yourself the first thing in the morning, right after you urinate. Use the same scale and write your weight down. Be alert for weight gain. The extra pounds are not from fat but from extra fluid your body is retaining. If your weight goes up two or more pounds, it is an indicator that you have consumed too much sodium and fluid is building up, making your heart work harder. Discuss with your doctor whether you should adjust your sodium intake in situations like this. Your physician may increase the dosage of your diuretic or prescribe another diuretic. 3. Take your heart failure medicine as prescribed. Depending on the severity of your case, you may need to take several medications daily to take control of your disease and make you feel better. Follow your doctor’s treatment plan and take your medicines exactly as directed. Don’t start skipping medication because you get tired of taking five or more pills a day, or because you feel well, don’t have any swelling, and have no apparent breathing problems. Skipping your medications, or even one of them, will eventually hurt you because your body becomes dependent on the drugs. If you develop side effects from any of your drugs, contact your doctor. The side effects often vanish over time, but in some cases, your doctor may have to change the time of day that you take a particular drug, change the dosage or switch you to another drug. 4. Be physically active every day. Physical activity like walking and bicycling can be hard for people with moderate to severe heart failure, but it’s very beneficial because it may improve heart function and ease symptoms. Also, by keeping active, you should be able to do the things that you have always enjoyed.Exercise has never been shown to be harmful for heart failure patients. HF-ACTION, a multicenter exercise study sponsored by the National Institutes of Health that looked at 2,300 patients with heart failure, recently indicated that riding a stationary bicycle or walking on a treadmill for 30 minutes most days of the week offered significant benefit. 5. Be honest with your doctor. When asked about their health, many heart failure patients often won’t tell the complete truth to their doctors. But without accurate information, a doctor may not offer the correct therapies. Some treatment options may be appropriate for people who get fatigued walking around the house; others are better for those who can walk a mile. Dr. Russell notes that in a typical situation, a patient will describe walking a few blocks every day, but then getting out of breath and having to rest. “I can’t believe you said that!” the spouse will then say, incredulous. “You haven’t been out of the house in two weeks. You can’t even mow the lawn.” Some patients only partly own up to their disease and the seriousness of their symptoms because they want their doctors to think everything is fine. Patients might be afraid to tell the doctor that they get out of breath walking around the house, for example, because they are afraid of what they might hear next, like needing a heart transplant. But patients deserve to know the facts about all of their options, which can happen only if they are honest about all their symptoms. Sometimes, something as simple as a medication change can make all the difference. In heart failure, the relationship with your doctor needs to be especially close because there is a powerful fight for survival going on. The situation should not be one where the patient comes in to see the doctor, get his marching orders, then heads right out. Instead, there needs to be an honest give and take between patient and doctor. As the patient gets sicker, this bond should become tighter, and it requires complete honesty on everyone’s part. May 9, 2016, 12:01 AM May 6, 2016 May 6, 2016 May 6, 2016 May 6, 2016 BMI Calculator What’s your score? » Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers. New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse.
Sports   Crosby Is Back as Penguins Pounce on Rangers in Third. Advertisement Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSJAN. 29, 2009 For one period, the Pittsburgh Penguins finally started to look like the offensive juggernaut they thought they could be. Petr Sykora and Kris Letang each had two goals, and Sidney Crosby got back into action with a goal and two assists in the Penguins’ 6-2 win over the visiting Rangers on Wednesday night. Jordan Staal added a goal and an assist for the Penguins, who weren’t sure if Crosby would play until the morning skate. He missed the All-Star Game because of a sore knee. The N.H.L.’s scoring leader, Evgeni Malkin, added two assists, and Marc-André Fleury stopped 32 shots for Pittsburgh. Advertisement Nikolai Zherdev and Marc Staal scored for the Rangers, who are 5-2-1 in their past eight games. The Rangers’ other regulation loss in that span was a 3-0 defeat in Pittsburgh 10 days earlier. “I just played terrible, that’s what happened,” Rangers goalie Henrik Lundqvist said of the third period. “I can’t explain it.” Crosby assisted on third-period goals by Letang and Sykora and closed out the scoring with his 18th goal, a pretty no-look backhander high to the glove side with 1 minute 40 seconds left. FLAMES 5, SABRES 2 Michael Cammalleri stayed hot through the All-Star break and scored three more goals in Calgary’s victory over visiting Buffalo. Cammalleri has scored eight times during a four-game goal streak, giving him 25 over all and moving him past Jarome Iginla for the team lead. Todd Bertuzzi and Dion Phaneuf also scored for the Flames, who have won six of eight and 9 of 10 at home. ZETTERBERG GETS 12-YEAR DEAL Looking to keep one of hockey’s top teams on steady footing, the Red Wings knew exactly where to start. Detroit announced that it had signed Henrik Zetterberg to the longest contract in team history, a 12-year, $73 million deal. OVECHKIN SITS OUT Alex Ovechkin was given Wednesday off as a precaution after a shoulder-first crash into the boards Tuesday. Washington Capitals Coach Bruce Boudreau said Ovechkin would not miss a game. EUROPEAN CHAMPION The Zurich Lions shut out defending champion Metallurg Magnitogorsk, 5-0, to win the European club championship in Rapperswil, Switzerland. Zurich, which won the Champions Hockey League final, 7-2, on aggregate, earned the right to play an N.H.L. team in a $1 million challenge game. A version of this article appears in print on , on page B18 of the New York edition with the headline: Crosby Is Back as Penguins Pounce on Rangers in Third. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Arts   Arts. Arts Search slide shows All Multimedia » next 1 of 10 Room With a View Sign In to E-Mail The Dessert, 1940, by Pierre Bonnard. Roberta Smith writes: By the last quarter-century of his long, productive career, Pierre Bonnard (1867-1947) was deep into what might be called his Red-Yellow-Orange Period. These colors dominate Pierre Bonnard: the Late Interiors, a sumptuous exhibition at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. Photo: Beyeler Collection, Basel, Artists Rights Society (ARS), New York/ADADGP, Paris related Article: Bonnard Late in Life, Searching for the Light Home Arts Log In Register Now Copyright   The New York Times Company Privacy Policy Contact Us Help Work for Us Site Map campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_personalized_isEDU_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/slideshow/yr/mo/day/arts/0130-BONN_index.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/slideshow/yr/mo/day/arts, position: Inv1
Business   Talk to the Newsroom: Executive Editor. Advertisement Advertisement JAN. 28, 2009 Bill Keller, executive editor of The New York Times, answered questions from readers Feb. 2-6, 2009. He previously answered questions in April 2006. Before becoming executive editor in July 2003, Mr. Keller had been an Op-Ed columnist and senior writer for The New York Times Magazine as well as other areas of the newspaper since September 2001. He served as managing editor from 1997 to September 2001 after having been the newspaper's foreign editor from June 1995 to 1997. He was the chief of The Times bureau in Johannesburg from April 1992 until May 1995. From December 1986 to October 1991, Mr. Keller was a Times correspondent in Moscow, serving as bureau chief during his last three years there. In 1989, he won a Pulitzer Prize for his coverage of the Soviet Union. Mr. Keller joined The New York Times in 1984 as a domestic correspondent based in the Washington bureau. Before coming to The Times, Mr. Keller was a reporter for The Dallas Times Herald, the Congressional Quarterly Weekly Report in Washington and The Portland Oregonian. Mr. Keller graduated from Pomona College with a B.A. degree in 1970 and is a member of the college's board of trustees. Advertisement Other Times staff members have answered questions in this column, including Managing Editor Jill Abramson, Managing Editor John Geddes, Assistant Managing Editor Glenn Kramon, Associate Managing Editor Charles Strum, Obituaries Editor Bill McDonald, Metropolitan Editor Joe Sexton, Living Editor Trish Hall, Investigations Editor Matthew Purdy, National Editor Suzanne Daley, Sports Editor Tom Jolly and Culture Editor Sam Sifton. Their responses and those of other Times staff members are available on the Talk to the Newsroom page. These discussions will continue in coming weeks with other Times editors and reporters. The Future of The Times Q. How much longer can actual newspapers survive? I know the question has been asked over and over (TV was going to kill newspapers; USA Today was going to kill newspapers) but now it seems serious. People under 40 don't seem to have the same relationship with the tactile experience of holding a newspaper in their hands. How will you keep this medium relevant, or failing that, continue to provide a medium that "comforts the afflicted and afflicts the comfortable"? Q. Writers are in general prone to navel-gazing, and it seems that the easiest and most popular form of self-study this year is the so-called "demise" of print. It seems that increased use of the Internet for information access and the current economic climate have created a "perfect storm" (as Tribune Company Chairman Sam Zell termed it) for print media which, if arguments are to be believed, will result in its ultimate demise. The Times seems to be doing comparatively well, yet between the increasing popularity of its Web site and the flagging circulation of its print edition, it would seem that The New York Times is in a stage of transition. How exactly do you see The Times changing over the next 5-10 years? Will we see less emphasis on a print edition, with more content and advertising on its Web site? Or will we see a renewed effort behind old mediums and an increased push to get users of the (currently free) Web site to subscribe to print or premium features? Q. The Internet has undermined, to say the least, The Times's business model. Have you considered eliminating the print edition altogether? Can The Times ever have a successful Internet/electronic business model so long as the print edition remains sacrosanct? Speaking as a conservative reader of a certain age, I never imagined I would be able to do without my morning papers or on weekends the Sunday Times. However, early in this century, 2002 I think it was, I discontinued my subscription to The New York Times, then discontinued my print subscriptions to all other publications, and I have not missed any of them one whit. The other day I saw someone in Starbucks reading a print New York Times and I thought, how quaint. Q. As more and more people are turning to the Internet for news, I worry about the end of print. My parents' generation have not all embraced the Internet with open arms. More of our local news is finding its way to the Internet, thus making the afternoon delivery of our local paper old news. How can a print newspaper sustain, yet fit the needs of both generations? Q. I want to be a Times columnist in, let's say, 20 years. Is that job even going to be available for your hand-picked successor to interview me for? Advertisement A. Ah, our existential question. Variations on this theme have outnumbered every other subject in the early e-mails from readers, as they did when my sidekick Jill Abramson, the managing editor for news, occupied this dunk 'em seat a few weeks ago. Editors, as you know, are responsible for the contents of The Times, not its business model. This is the only business I can think of where the people who make the product have traditionally been kept apart from the people who sell the product, to protect journalists from the undue influence of advertisers. For most of my life, that's been fine with me. Besides, the six weeks I spent long ago at the Wharton School did not, sadly, leave me with the business acumen of Warren Buffett or Steve Jobs, let alone equip me to see the future. That said, like everyone else who labors in the journalism business, or just loves it, I worry about our future, discuss it constantly with colleagues, and participate in some aspects of charting it. If Mr. Boyd will forgive a bit of navel-gazing, let's start the day with this subject. I'm an incurable optimist about the future of good journalism, and of The New York Times in particular. I expect people will still be applying for columnist jobs after I've gone. (Although not to my successor. The Op-Ed columnists and editorial writers answer to another editor, who is independent of the newsroom. Which is why I will not be addressing questions about William Kristol.) I've laid out my basic reasons for optimism on many occasions, and they still seem to hold water. First, there is a diminishing supply of quality journalism, and a growing demand. By quality journalism I mean the kind that involves experienced reporters going places, bearing witness, digging into records, developing sources, checking and double-checking, backed by editors who try to enforce high standards. I mean journalism that, however imperfect, labors hard to be trustworthy, to supply you with the information you need to be an engaged citizen. The supply of this kind of journalism is declining because it is hard, expensive, sometimes dangerous work. The traditional practitioners of this craft — mainly newspapers — have been downsizing or declaring bankruptcy. The wonderful florescence of communication ignited by the Internet contains countless voices riffing on the journalism of others but not so many that do serious reporting of their own. Hence the dwindling supply. The best evidence of the soaring demand is the phenomenal traffic to the Web sites that do dependable news reporting — nearly 20 million unique monthly visitors to the site you are currently reading, and that number excludes the burgeoning international audience. The law of supply and demand suggests that the market will find a way to make the demand pay for the supply. Advertisement Second, The Times has some advantages that buy us time to make the transition successfully. Like everyone in the news business, we have been buffeted by forces, some of them cyclical (namely a global economic crisis that is a great story to cover but a depressing experience to live through) and some structural (the migration of audiences and advertising revenue to the Web). But we've fared better than our competitors. Fortunately, we have not gutted our newsgathering operation as so many other papers have, so that we can still deliver the breadth and depth of coverage readers expect, and we still have the human bandwidth to innovate. We moved earlier than others to embrace the Web as integral to our newsgathering operation, so our Web site is generally acknowledged to be among the very best news venues online, which helps explain the traffic numbers I cited above. We have a devoutly loyal print readership (median age, under 50). Circulation revenues have actually grown. We have a respected brand that attracts a premium national advertising clientele. And we're controlled by a family that prizes and defends what we do. We are not by any means immune to either the deep recession or the tumult in the media world, but we are secure enough to develop a thoughtful strategy for the long term. And, third, I'm optimistic because there are a lot of smart, creative people in the company — and some really smart Times devotees outside the company — studying the business model for quality journalism and devising ways to change it. I think in the next year or two news organizations will have to make some major decisions about the role of print versus online, the balance of advertising revenue and subscription revenue, the extent to which they will chase a premium audience versus a mass audience, and so on. Why not just cut the huge cost of newsprint and printing plants and live off our digital revenues? For one thing, a lot of people love the printed paper, and it more than pays its own way. For another, revenues from the Web are not yet sufficient to support a great newsgathering operation. Some of you may have noticed a recent report that The Los Angeles Times now generates enough online revenue to cover the payroll of the newsroom. I'm not privy to the internal numbers of The L.A. Times, but here are a few reasons to hold the celebration: 1. Payroll is, indeed, the biggest cost in a newsroom. But there are other major costs — in the newsroom budget, and in other budgets not attributed to the newsroom — that do not go away just because print goes away. There is the cost of equipment — computers, cameras, telephones, etc. There is the cost of travel. There is the cost of real estate; even a decentralized newsroom has to work somewhere. There is the cost of foreign bureaus, including the cost of security in places like Baghdad and Kabul. Beyond the newsroom itself, there is the cost of an ad sales department, the cost of lawyers who negotiate contracts and help keep reporters out of jail, the cost of the people who manage the money and file the tax returns and oversee compliance with the Securities and Exchange Commission, among other agencies. None of that disappears just because you stop publishing on newsprint. 2. To reach its current payroll, The L.A. Times had to eviscerate its reporting and editing staff. Not that many years ago, The L.A. Times had approximately as many journalists as The New York Times. It had a robust network of foreign bureaus, and a truly competitive Washington bureau, and a free-standing book review. It now has approximately half the journalists of its heyday, has subjected its foreign and Washington bureaus to wrenching cuts, folded its book review, and so on. I've read The Los Angeles Times since I was a college student in Southern California, I admire the editors who are trying to weather a period of ruthless ownership, and I still follow its coverage. But it is not what it once was. 3. Advertising on the Web, after growing strongly well into 2008, flatlined in the fourth quarter. Everyone assumes it will come back in some form when the recession ends, but in the short run at least the Web is not the sturdy lifeboat it seemed to be just six months ago. Advertisement There is no end of faith-based polemics on the subject of newspapers' survival. Print is dead! Online readers must pay for content! Online readers will never pay for content! Give newspapers endowments, like universities! We should be a little suspicious of ironclad certainty. The fact is, we don't really know yet how the behavior of readers and advertisers will evolve. We don't really know for sure how to separate the consequences of a calamitous economic crisis from the enduring changes in behavior provoked by new technologies. I think in the next year or two, we must examine all our options with an open mind, test those that are testable, and make some hard choices. My expectation (and I remind you of the disclaimers regarding my business acumen) is that for the foreseeable future our business will continue to be a mix of print and online journalism, with the growth online offsetting the (gradual, we hope) decline of print. Should The Times Charge for Online News? Q. I recognize that newspapers are financially distressed these days. I go to NYTimes.com at least a half dozen times per day for breaking news coverage, which I consider the best in the United States. I often download and copy articles for office use. All of this does not generate revenues for The New York Times. How would you justify the online edition? Q. I love The New York Times, print and electronic, and can’t imagine life without it. Have you considered adopting an NPR type business model for the electronic version? Every time I use it, I can’t believe it’s free. I’d donate money to support such a valuable service. A. As most of you know, a few years ago The Times introduced a subscription service called Times Select. We put our columnists and our archives behind a wall and charged admission to anyone who was not a print subscriber. Times Select generated something like $10 million a year, which was real money, but in the end the company calculated that we'd be better off taking down the wall and letting the flood of additional visitors to the Web site attract advertising dollars. The lesson of that experiment, however, was not that readers won't pay for content. A lot of people in the news business, myself included, don't buy as a matter of theology that information "wants to be free." Really good information, often extracted from reluctant sources, truth-tested, organized and explained — that stuff wants to be paid for. So far, it gets paid for mainly by advertisers, but a lively, deadly serious discussion continues within The Times about ways to get consumers to pay for what we make. There are many variations on this theme, but here are the three that tend to top most study lists: — A subscription model. Times Select was not the answer, but it's possible we just put the wrong stuff behind the wall. Maybe we should put it all there, or some different slice of it. The Wall Street Journal and Financial Times both have paid tiers in their Web sites. Rupert Murdoch, when he bought The Journal, talked about making the Web site free, but then he decided it made better sense to continue charging. Maybe the Journal/FT model is special, because its audience is disproportionately business executives who charge the cost to their expense accounts rather than ordinary readers spending their own money. The bigger argument against subscriptions is that they limit traffic, which limits ad revenues. Paid content tends not to show up in Web searches, which makes it less appealing to advertisers. They don't open their books, but if they did I'll bet you'd see that The Journal's Web site generates far less revenue than ours. But if Web advertising takes a long dive — or if some clever engineer figures out how to decouple a paid Web site from the search function — a subscription model might be worth a closer look. — A micro-payment model. The idea is that readers may not pay a subscription fee for a new Web site, but they might pay a few pennies every time they click on a page, if it was simple and frictionless. In the heyday of Napster and other steal-this-music Web sites, a lot of people believed that consumers would simply not pay money to download music. Enter Apple and iTunes. — New reading devices. The Times currently makes a modest amount of money selling a downloadable newspaper for Kindle users and for subscribers to a service called Times Reader. These services allow readers to load the entire paper into a portable device. In the case of Times Reader, the download has been especially designed to include full-color pictures, graphics and so forth. So some people are paying for The Times online. Just not enough of them. So far. What About the Not-for-Profit Model? Q. A commentator recently proposed that The Times (and other papers) be converted into foundations (like the G.R. Dodge Foundation, etc.). It seems to this reader of The Times (since before the period was dropped from the front page title) a good idea. What do you think? Q. How would a wealthy individual go about donating money to the endowment for The New York Times? A. When you think about it, an awful lot of the best journalism is subsidized in one way or another. BBC gets government support. NPR raises foundation money and reader donations. The Wall Street Journal and The Washington Post are struggling with severe revenue declines; neither paper admits to losing money, but if they have gone into the red their losses are offset by other ventures of their parent corporations. (The Journal is propped up by News Corp's TV assets, such as Fox, and The Post is underwritten by the company's profitable Kaplan test prep business.) The Guardian in London belongs to a trust, and The St. Petersburg Times in Florida is owned by a journalism school — both arrangements devised by wealthy founders who wanted the publications managed for public good rather than private profit. A commentary on The Times Op-Ed page last week proposed creation of a New York Times endowment, like a university; that provoked an interesting array of letters. In my view, we should give serious study to anything that holds promise, but there are serious downsides to a not-for-profit model. For one thing, charity, however well intentioned, can come with strings attached. For another, endowments are no insulation against economic hard times. (Just ask universities.) And competition is, mostly, good for journalism. True, the scramble for readers' attention may contribute to tabloid sensationalism and press-pack feeding frenzies. But it also serves as a goad to aggressive reporting — and a check on the accuracy of our facts and analysis. Maybe now we can turn our gaze to other navels for a while? Was Tom Daschle Story Buried? Q. You have buried an important story about Tom Daschle's tax evasion and glossed over the fact that he did not report consulting income (which no one would argue is not "income"). Why is that? Advertisement Q. The claim that former Senator Tom Daschle's unreported income for a car and driver over three years exceeds $250,000 is ludicrous. Will The Times pursue this story and find out the truth of where this income really originated and why it was not reported to the I.R.S.? Q. I am very curious to see how The Times is going to handle the Tom Daschle "tax issues" and unreported compensation from a private equity equity firm, as relates now to his fitness to run Health and Human Services. I am a Democrat, a Marine veteran of the Iraq war, and I voted for President Obama. My question: Does The Times now plan to take a position against Mr. Daschle's appointment? I cannot help but say that there appears to clearly be two standards when it comes to misconduct, especially of the tax and income variety, between the political plutocrats and the rest of us. If Mr. Obama and his crew give Tom Daschle a pass on this and follow in lock-step behind his continued appointment, I will have to confess seeing no difference between Obama and Bush-Clinton. It could then be said, "acting on principle" and with honor appears to only be handy when you are skewering your political opponents, their family and their cronies. "Yes we can!" — with an asterik. Q. Why has The Times electronic home page failed to report the Tom Daschle tax evasion story all day, when it was listed as a major feature story on both The Washington Post's and The Wall Street Journal's electronic sites? It seems like it is a major story and, although The Times has covered it in its print edition on the front page, I'm wondering what the reasoning is among the online editors that has kept it relatively hidden from online readers. I am a high school journalism teacher who requires his class to read The Times every morning. What can I tell them? A. We've "buried" the story for three days running — on the front page. See here, here and here. And, yes, we are still pursuing it. I'm not sure when Mr. Hedberg logged on, but the Daschle story first appeared on the home page shortly after 7 p.m. Friday, as soon as we succeeded in nailing down the details, and only about a half hour after the story was first disclosed by ABC News.com. (As a general rule, we like to be first to the Web with the news, but not if we haven't checked the facts carefully.) The Tom Daschle story has remained on the home page, the digital equivalent of the front page, more or less continuously since Friday, as we have uncovered additional information. Advertisement To Mr. Kane's question, The Times — meaning the newsroom — does not take positions on issues like whether or not Mr. Daschle should be confirmed. The editorial writers, who are independent of the newsroom and answer directly to the publisher, may weigh in on that subject, and it's possible some of our Op-Ed columnists will have their own opinions on the subject. They don't work for me, and I won't see what they have to say on this subject until you do. In the rest of the newspaper, which is my bailiwick, our aim is not to tell you what Congress ought to do, or what you ought to think; it is to supply you with all the information you need to make up your own mind. An earlier writer referred to a newspaper's mission as to "comfort the afflicted and afflict the comfortable." We pride ourselves on being equal opportunity afflicters. If the subtext of some of the Daschle e-mails is that we might go easy on him because he's a Democrat, that would come as news to a number of Democrats. It would come as news to Eliot Spitzer, whose patronage of prostitutes we disclosed last year. Or Representative Charles B. Rangel, whose properties and tax issues we have investigated. Or Bill Clinton. Are Anonymous Sources Really Necessary? Q. We are daily subscribers, and The New York Times's quality of writing is just outstanding. One element of The Times's reporting does trouble me: the frequent use of "anonymous" sources. Articles that use anonymous sources state that the person speaking was not authorized to talk on the subject. But doesn't anonymity undercut veracity? It would seem that if a speaker remains anonymous then he or she may be untruthful at worst and misleading at best. What does The Times do to ensure that the information disclosed by anonymous sources is reliable? Q. How do you justify the number of unnamed sources used in The New York Times? Q. I am an avid reader and scanner of The New York Times and The Washington Post. They are of equal value in my estimation. However, I think both are ill-served by their reliance on anonymous sources. Why is it that an anonymous source drives the news? It appears to me that such reliance helps someone’s byline and the reporter’s celebrity status without advancing the true status or believability of the underlying story? Could it be that the reason for the decline of the print media is that job one of the reporting staff is to focus on a short-term career boost at the expense of the long-term interest of the reader? Just wondering… A. Anonymity is both a vital tool and a serious hazard for journalists. Used carefully, an agreement to withhold a source's name allows us to extract valuable information from people who would otherwise fear reprisals from an employer, legal jeopardy or other consequences. In extreme cases — reporting from Zimbabwe comes to mind — to name a source may be to mark that person for arrest or death. Much of what the public learns about official malfeasance, about corruption, about threats to our security or civil liberties, or, less dramatically, about how powerful institutions in our society actually work, starts with sources who will not talk without a measure of protection. At the same time, casual reliance on unnamed sources, as the readers above suggest, corrodes our credibility and, in cases that are rare but not rare enough, may abet journalistic malpractice. The Times policy, which was significantly tightened after a reporter was caught fabricating stories in 2003, is as follows: First, reporters should press sources to go on the record. The best reporters manage to write some extremely sensitive stories with few or no anonymous sources — see, for example, David Barstow's expose of the Pentagon's program to co-opt "military analysts" who appear as impartial commentators on TV, or Chris Chivers's account of alleged torture in Chechnya. Second, an editor should know the identity of any unnamed source, and should push for attribution (or eliminate the material from the story) if anonymity is not justified. Third, where anonymous sources are used editors are expected to assure that reporters reveal as much as we can about the veracity of the source (that is, how do they know what they're telling us?) and any potential bias (does the source have an ax to grind?) Like any lazy practice, anonymous sourcing tends to proliferate if it is not watched. So thanks for a timely shot across the bow. Advertisement Regrets of an Executive Editor? Q. You've been the face of The Times through the very roughest times for The Times. Anything you regret? A. I assume, dear reader, that you are not referring to the nights I got home too late to read to my kids, or the two books I didn't manage to finish writing, or the fact that I dropped piano in third grade. And it's too easy (though not untrue) to say I regret not having enough money to hire more of the terrific journalists who are seeking rescue from other, foundering publications. Journalists are in the second-guessing business and, whether or not we always admit it, we second-guess ourselves all the time. Is there another phone call I should have made on that story? Should I trust that source? Is that the right lead, the right headline, the right picture? Did that story deserve to be on the front page? Was the competition's version better? On Page 4 every day we publish some of our regrets in the form of corrections and editor's notes. Every misspelled word, every unchecked fact, every time we failed to give someone a fair shake makes me wince. When we blunder in a bigger way — some of the credulous stories The Times published en route to the war in Iraq, for example — I ache for our precious credibility. Even worse is when we get it wrong and then insist on sticking to our guns. (I waited a year after getting this job before I wrote a mea culpa about some of our pre-war W.M.D. coverage.) I take some consolation in the fact that we try, as a rule, to own up to our mistakes and even learn from them. There is no worse feeling in this business, however, than the feeling that you have let readers down. So, yes, regrets, I've had way more than a few. Thankfully they are outweighed by the thrill I get working with some of the most talented, conscientious, honorable people in journalism. About the Public Editor Q. It seems fewer and fewer U.S. newspapers employ a public editor (as distinct from a readers’ representative or readers’ editor, which are nothing more than public relations mouthpieces for the company store). According to the Organization of News Ombudsmen, there are approximately 17 public editors or ombudsmen, down from 2006, when there were 40. Are you still a strong advocate of the independence of the public editor since naming Daniel Okrent, The Times’s first public editor on Oct. 27, 2003? Advertisement Has Clark Hoyt lived up to your expectations, and should readers expect him to stay put, at least for the next couple of years. Q. Why is it that when the public editor reports on issues discussed with you, you almost never seem to agree with him and appear somewhat defensive as well? P.S. F.Y.I. only once have I had serious disagreement with an opinion of Mr. Hoyt. That was when he concurred with the ridiculous assertion that three pages of index/online piece subjects (and now, front page "index" as well) do not reduce the amount of space available for the news. A. A number of news organizations have ombudsmen, independent representatives of the readers, who handle complaints and critique journalistic performance, often in the pages of the paper. The Times had long resisted the idea, largely because we thought it was our job as editors to represent the interests of readers. But after the famous Voldemort scandal of 2003, we realized we could use additional safeguards for our credibility. We created the job of "standards editor," to make sure our policies on accuracy and fair play were rigorous and to help enforce them, and a "public editor" to serve as a kind of independent auditor, with freedom to air his judgments on the Web site and in the Sunday paper. (We also tightened our policies on corrections, anonymous sources and other issues important to our credibility.) The publisher and I hire the public editor for a fixed term. We recently announced that we were giving the current public editor a one-time-only one-year extension. I have long felt the two-year term was too short for someone who came to this complicated place from outside; it takes a while to learn your way around, and by the time one public editor has figured out the job I'm scouring the landscape for a successor. Clark Hoyt is the third journalist to hold this largely thankless job — an assignment that makes you few friends in the newsroom, and inevitably leaves some readers dissatisfied. I find him very thorough in his reporting, fair-minded in his analysis, and unafraid of hard subjects. I think he does the job as well as it can be done. Sometimes I agree with his conclusions, even if he is calling us on the carpet. And yes, I sometimes disagree with him. He's not my commanding officer, or the Supreme Court. He's an independent critic, an outsider with a hall pass and a platform. He is entitled to respect, but I don't think he expects conformity. To answer Mr. Lucey, I hope Mr. Hoyt will stay put until his term expires in June 2010, and I fully support his independence. Whether we have a fourth and a fifth and a sixth public editor is a question we'll answer when the time comes. The idea of a public editor has never won universal acclamation in the newsroom. There are still some who believe we have enough independent checks in the legion of self-appointed press critics without paying one of our own. There are still some who think a public editor does more to undermine our credibility, by poking small holes in important stories, than to shore it up. The other day in a meeting of senior editors I asked for an informal show of hands on the question of continuing the role of public editor. The room was about evenly divided. I'm keeping my own hand down until 2010. Advertisement Where Are the Stories About Moody's? Q. Moody's rated all those toxic securitized mortgages as "Triple A" — thus duping investors into buying them, here and abroad. Now it's more than clear that Moody's ratings were completely bogus. Yet — unlike Arthur Andersen in the Enron scandal — Moody's, the enabler in the entire meltdown mess, continues to reign supreme with nary a negative word heard against it. Why doesn't The New York Times do a major piece about Moody's role in the meltdown? If you were concerned that Moody's would retaliate by dropping your rating ... well, oops, too late for that! Go after Moody's and get to the bottom of how such a firm can get away clean after such colossal negligence! A. A number of letters have come in suggesting stories we should pursue. I'm referring good ideas to the responsible editors. But some of the suggestions are for articles we've already published. Ms. Larson, I'm sorry you missed an excellent piece on Moody's and other rating agencies, by the talented Gretchen Morgenson. It ran on the front page, Dec. 7, part of a series, called The Reckoning, exploring in heavily reported detail how the country fell into the economic crisis. Come to think of it, here's the whole series. It's great reading. Just Another Day in the Salt Mines Q. I think a lot of young journalists and editors, myself included, are curious about what a day in the shoes of Bill Keller is like. Can you walk us through a normal work day for The Times's executive editor? A. Really? You'd be interested in that? Well, I think my life is pretty much what you would imagine it to be. I wake up most mornings to the telephone, invariably some world leader or international celebrity seeking my counsel. Lately it's been a lot of President Obama — again with the damn puppy? — but sometimes it's Richard Holbrooke to pick my brain about Afghanistan, or Bruce Springsteen asking if it isn't time for another Arts and Leisure cover story about Bruce Springsteen. The valet brings breakfast with the handful of newspapers that have not gone out of business. In the limo on the way to the office, I help Warren Buffett sort out his portfolio and give trading advice to George Steinbrenner, not that he ever listens. At the office, Arthur Sulzberger Jr. and I have our morning conference call with Vladimir Putin, Hugo Chavez, Kim Jong-il and Mahmoud Ahmadinejad — plus Fidel Castro when he's compos mentis. Dictating the world's agenda entails a lot of conference calls. I've been encouraging the cabal to save some money by using iChat, but first we have to persuade Putin to wear a shirt. Lunch at the Four Seasons is always a high point. Today it's my weekly tête-à-tête with Bill O'Reilly. He's really not the Neanderthal blowhard he plays on TV. He's totally in on the joke. After a couple of cosmopolitans, he does a wicked impression of Ann Coulter. We usually spend the lunch working up outlandish things he can say about The New York Times and making fun of Fox executives. (Once Rupert Murdoch showed up for a lunch date, and O'Reilly had to hide under the table for half an hour.) I spend most of the afternoon writing all the stories for the front page. (You knew those were all pseudonyms, right?) I write Tom Friedman's column, too, but, I swear, Bill Kristol wrote all his own stuff. Advertisement By then it's time for drinks and dinner. If you're reading this, Julian, I think the duck tonight. I had the foie gras for lunch. And no time for dessert. The Secretary of State is coming by to give me a back rub. The Whys and Wherefores of the Index Pages Q. I'm wondering why The Times insists on using three inside pages of the A section for an index to the paper and guide to what's on The Times's Web site instead of adding more reportorial content? The paper doesn't start for me — and I'd assume many others — until Page 5. I'm looking for more foreign coverage and feel as though I'm being short-changed since the redesign a year or so ago. Q. I love The Times and have been reading it daily since I was 12 years old. (I'm 59, but don't tell anyone). The paper, of course, has its quirks, but one thing that regularly annoys me is your new index. I understand why The Times adopted the format, but I don't think it really serves the purpose of getting a quick overview of what's inside. It's too cumbersome. In addition, it's sometimes difficult finding the obit page because it may not be indexed that day or — and this seems to happen a lot — the wrong page is listed. As an old newspaper editor, I can certainly guess why this happens, but someone needs to check this because it is annoying. A. Reading over my previous answer, I recognize that it ill behooves the executive editor to attempt satire this early in the week. Friday, maybe Thursday, and only during Happy Hour. So let's get this trolley back on the sober track. What'll it be? The Middle East? Not yet. Liberal bias? Oh, please! The index? Now you're talking! Tom Bodkin, probably the most brilliant art director in the history of newspapers, and I just spent 10 minutes arguing about our slightly different recollections of how the revised index came to pass. We agree that it grew out of one of our periodic attempts to refresh and improve the A section. My memory is that it started with our desire to create an "International" page, a kind of second front page for foreign news, to match the longstanding "National" page. We wanted our new page to be a kind of gateway to the foreign section, and it had to be an open page so that we could design it and do justice to important news and give ample display to some great photojournalism. Page 5 is the first open page, because pages 2, 3 and 4 have advertising space that has been leased out to a number of luxury advertisers that treasure their position in the front of the A book. Thus, as I recall it, the creation of the "International" page as the start of the foreign report left us with the question of how best to use those three pages. Tom's recollection is that an expanded index was on his to-do list even before the "International" page entered the discussion. In any case, we agree that we got the folks who approve our budget to give us extra space for the new arrangement; we did not cut the foreign report to make way for the index. The idea was to create, on pages 2 and 3, a kind of summary/index/table of contents. For readers in a hurry, these pages offer a quick roundup of the news, features, columns and other contents of the entire newspaper. At the same time, this would serve as a menu — readers enticed by a summary at the front of the paper would turn to the full story. Or it would be a guide to favorites: What page is Clyde Haberman's column on today? Where do I find the Knicks game? Where are the obituaries? Page 4 became the new home of corrections (formerly on Page 2) and a directory of interesting things on our Web site. Of course, like all changes to The New York Times, this has encountered some resistance. We believe that for harried readers a summary of the day's news and a guide to the paper's contents could be a valuable service. But we don't know how many readers use this feature or if its design could be altered to enhance its usefulness. We are about to conduct a reader survey aimed specifically at pages 2 and 3. We have some thoughts about improving the presentation but want to be guided by broader feedback from Times readers. And if our research shows little interest in a news summary/contents, we will of course consider other uses for this space. By the way, Mr. Levine, while the index may or may not contain a summary of a significant obituary, you can always find the location of the obituaries by looking at Page 3, bottom righthand corner. Advertisement Why So Much Ink for Caroline Kennedy? Q. I was curious to know why The Times decided to do so many features on Caroline Kennedy while virtually ignoring the other candidates for Senate — particularly Kirsten Gillibrand. Ever since December, I had been reading all of the political blogs around New York State, as well as the political blog from NPR. I would estimate that about 60 percent of them predicted that Gillibrand would be chosen as senator. In the beginning of January I noticed that the buzz around Gillibrand was getting louder, and yet the only mention I saw about her in your paper at the time was about how the other candidates were in Kennedy's shadow. By mid- January, it was clear from the blogs and Paterson's remarks that he was edging towards Gillibrand. Yet the Times chose to to two stories on Kennedy on Jan. 17 and 19 — one of which centered on whether she was shy or not. I wrote to your paper twice, asking for more coverage on the other candidates, like Gillibrand, but never received a reply. In retrospect, do you think your paper should have given your readers a chance to look at the other candidates? And why did your reporters not catch the buzz on Gillibrand sooner, as so many political bloggers did ? The NPR blogger has steadfastly predicted it would be Gillibrand since early December. (You can tell I think your Kennedy coverage was overkill and not fair to the other candidates.) A. I can't speak for the political blogosphere — even a stopped clock is right twice a day — but we had good reason to believe, and our reporters and editors still believe, that Caroline Kennedy was the governor's choice up until the day she told him she was having second thoughts. I know who many of the sources were; they were from Gov. David Paterson's inner circle, from the Kennedy camp, and from people in neither camp who had been consulted on the appointment. Nobody, of course, knew with certainty what was in the governor's mind, possibly including the governor, but he gave no one around him reason to think he was inclined toward Kirsten Gillibrand until Ms. Kennedy withdrew. Even then, we believe that Randi Weingarten was in the running until the last minute. We took note throughout of other possible appointees, and if this had been up for a public vote, of course we would have written more extensively about the rivals from the outset. But in this case the outcome depended on the vote of one sometimes-mysterious man. It was a pretty rich story. Ms. Kennedy was relatively untested in politics. The appointment was one of the first major decisions facing a fairly new governor. Our reporters rightly dug in. (And then, when the situation changed, they dug in on Ms. Gillibrand.) Did Ms. Kennedy get extra attention just because she is a Kennedy? Of course she did — from The Times, from the governor, from the political etablishment, and from readers. To the Tigers of Albert Lea, Minn. Q. Hi, Bill Keller. I'm Shelby Lageson, and I'm a journalist at Albert Lea High School in Minnesota. You're going to get a lot of questions from my classmates, and I hope that you answer at least one. It'd make our journalism teacher, Mr. Worth, quite ecstatic. But anyway, my question for you... I've always thought the editor was the most important part of any newspaper. I also think it is the most enjoyable. Why, specifically, did you become an editor? And, also, why The New York Times? It's impressive. Congratulations on doing so well. Q. I was just wondering what it feels like to work for one of the most renowned newspapers in the world? Advertisement Q. We just finished watching the movie "Shattered Glass." What are the most important traits needed to make sure that fabricated stories do not get through? Q. I know that your newspaper is the best in the world and every story I've ever read in your newspaper has never been boring, which leads me to my question. Have you ever been handed a story, which seemed almost too good, too interesting to be true? Say for instance when Jayson Blair was there. Did you ever once think that the things he was writing about were untrue? How about some of the reporters you have now? Do you ever think that about them? I know that I said I had one question and that was about four. If you could take some time out of your busy day to answer them that would be greatly appreciated. Q. We were wondering how stressful your job is and what causes this stress? Q. The two of us are aspiring editors and we are wondering how stressful your job as editor is? Q. We were wondering, what do you think is the most important thing to get right in journalism? Q. We finished learning about Stephen Glass and we were wondering if you were in his editor's (Chuck Lane) shoes, would you have done anything different about the articles he made up? Q. What are the different jobs in a newspaper and what are some challenges reporters face? Q. What are the pros and cons of your line of work? If you could reply, that would be great. Thanks. Q. What was your first inspiration in life to become a journalist? Q. What college(s) did you attend and do you have any suggestions of colleges that would be great for possible future journalists as ourselves? Advertisement Q. What are the steps we must go through to publish a solid, factual story and know it is not inaccurate? Q. We have been studying a former journalist named Jayson Blair. I have been wondering if, with our economic situation and money being rather tight, there have been any cuts in the area of fact-checking the stories that are "fit to print." If you could answer that for me, I would be very happy and proud. Q. What is the hardest but most beneficial factor of journalism? Q. Hey Bill, my name is Daniel Edwards and I live in Albert Lea, Minn. I am a sophomore journalism student at my high school. I have the opportunity to ask you a question or two about anything I want, as long as it relates to journalism of course! What did you do, or sacrifice, to get to where you are now? How did you make you way up the ranks in journalism, from a nobody, to a somebody? and finally..... Do you have a car space with your name on it?! With a nice car in it?! = D Q. I was wondering what you think is the best new catchy design element that would be cool to use in our school paper. Q. I am just wondering, did you always know you wanted to be a journalist? Also, what kind of preparations did you make in your life to get where you are now? Thank you for taking time and looking at this and I appreciate it! Q. I was watching old "Daily Show With Jon Stewart" clips when I came across one that caught my attention. Jon Stewart was doing a piece about newspapers and their plummeting popularity. So, I thought to myself: "Why not ask someone on the inside what the situation is like?" Advertisement Opportunity presented itself perfectly. Today, we were assigned to submit a question for "Talk to the Newsroom." My question for you is: What is it like to be on the inside while newspapers are becoming more and more outdated? Do you think they can make a comeback? Thank you for taking the time to read my e-mail. Q. I was wondering if you ever caught any of The New York Times writers who fabricated their stories and if you have what did you do about it? Thanks for your time. I appreciate what you do. Q. Our question is, "What do you do when someone on your staff has nothing to write about?" Q. My question for you is, how do I know if I should give up all my other dreams for something so unstable as writing? Q. We were wondering what your favorite moment in journalism has been over the years? A. Shelby, I can't pass up the opportunity to make Mr. Worth ecstatic. Anyone who has 35 high school sophomores reading newspapers and thinking about journalism is a hero in my book. So here goes, a lightning round for the Albert Lea High School Tigers. Many of you (Bethany, Brooke, Sila, Caleb, Zach, Alyssa, Natasha) wonder about journalism as a career — mine, or in general. Like you, I first got hooked on journalism in high school. Working for the school paper gave me a chance to stand a little apart from my teachers and fellow students, ask impertinent questions, and occasionally get away with writing something that tweaked the establishment. (Did I mention this was a Catholic boys school in the 1960s?) I took journalism more seriously at my college paper, where I was lucky to encounter a few student editors who understood that the most important thing, Dyllan and Josh, (and the hardest thing, Alik and Callen) is not the writing or the sense of independence. Both of those matter a lot, but the most important thing is the discipline. Discipline, Alex and Tanieka, is the prerequisite for accuracy and fairness, which add up to integrity. To make sure you've got the story right, you learn to report against your own story. Check your facts, not only with the people who are likely to agree with the premise of your story but also with the people who are likely to disagree. If you're unclear about what someone meant, never be too timid to call back and clarify. To make sure you've got it fair, you learn to set aside your personal opinions, the way a judge does in a courtroom. If you're writing a profile, imagine the person you're writing about is you. Discipline applies to the writing, too. Get to the point. Be as clear as possible. Cut out anything that doesn't serve the piece. Write every day. Rewrite. Then rewrite again if you have time. People are drawn to journalism for many different reasons. Some simply love to write. Some are curious. Some want to change the world. Some seek adventure. Some like seeing their names in print. Some want to witness history. I plead at least a little guilty to all of those motives, but what has always appealed to me most was puzzling things out — taking a complicated situation, investigating and studying it until I thought I understood it, then explaining it as best I could. If I hadn't been a journalist, I'd probably have been a teacher. It may be true, Shelby, that the editor is the most important part of a newspaper, but when I was your age I sure didn't think so. In fact, I spent 25 years as a reporter, swearing I would never become an editor. Sitting at a desk, watching other people go out and find the story, and then fussing with other people's words — I just didn't get the appeal of that. Then as I was finishing up a reporting assignment in South Africa in 1995, my boss at The Times asked if I wanted to be the next foreign editor. It's one thing to say you don't want to be an editor. It's another thing to be offered a chance to lead the most impressive team of foreign correspondents in the world. It turned out that editing was a variation on the figuring-things-out function that most appealed to me about journalism. Except that as an editor I can deploy a staff of reporters and, working with them, try to figure out a whole lot of things at once. These days, besides trying to figure out an assortment of world conflicts, a global economic meltdown and a new administration in Washington, we're trying to figure out the future of our own business. (Nya, you'll find my thought on that subject at the beginning of this Q&A.) Advertisement Yes, Aaron, Chris, Shalin and Kaila, the job comes with stress. Some of it is just the hard labor of making sure we've got stories right — often on a tight deadline. Some of it comes from competition. Some of it comes from people who don't like what we write. Some of it comes from the pressure of a sour economy. And then there are stresses you can't imagine when you sign up to be a newsman. People who work for you get sick, or their spouses or children or parents get sick. Reporters working in dangerous places get arrested, or kidnapped, or even killed. (I've experienced all three.) The way you get through it without a broken spirit or a hardened heart is by surrounding yourself with good people and leaning on them. Thanks to them, Jackson, most of the time this job feels pretty great. Luke, Jon, choosing my favorite moment in journalism would be like picking a favorite among my children. I can't pick one favorite. I was lucky enough to cover the end of communism in the Soviet Union and the end of apartheid in South Africa. How's that for starters? Some of you (Marc, Marley, Allison, Amy and Lynzie) asked about episodes of gross journalistic malpractice: Jayson Blair, who fabricated a number of stories at The Times before he was caught, and Stephen Glass, a serial makeup artist at The New Republic. While newspapers can and must take strong precautions, there is no absolute fail-safe device against a rogue reporter. You can't eavesdrop on every phone conversation, or send babysitters with reporters when they go on assignment. Here are a few things you can do — all of which we do with greater rigor at The Times since the embarrassment of the Jayson Blair case: Take the time to carefully vet people you hire. Train and retrain your staff in the techniques of fact-checking. Monitor corrections, and home in on people whose work has to be corrected too often. Assure that when reporters submit work based on anonymous sources an editor knows the identities of the sources. Assign people to monitor the integrity of our journalism (at The Times, we have a standards editor and a public editor, discussed above.) Create a culture in which our credibility is valued above all, and someone who is suspicious of a story feels a responsibility to mention it. Own up to your errors. (The most thorough examination of Jayson Blair's fraud was in The New York Times.) Maintaining a high level of accuracy and fairness is harder these days. Budget cuts don't help, Elisha, but a more important factor is the growing pressure to get information posted quickly on our Web site. It's one of the biggest challenges we wrestle with — how to satisfy the constant appetite of the Web for news right now without sacrificing the careful reporting, fact-checking and reflection that readers expect in a Times story. We have tried hard to inculcate an ethic that prizes being right over being first, and I think we've been pretty successful at being nimble on the Web without being sloppy. But it requires constant vigilance. Holly and Meghan ask about colleges that create possibilities for future journalists. There are many, many paths to journalism, and they are not by any means limited to studying journalism as an academic subject. The essential skills of journalism — gathering and checking information, organizing it in ways that make sense, putting it in context, writing it clearly and fairly — are applicable to many fields, many careers. A good, rounded liberal arts education is a fine launching pad into a journalism life. So is concentrated study in any field that excites you: science, history, literature, law, philosophy, computer science. If you think journalism is your passion, it's not necessary to pick a school with a strong classroom program in journalism. You may find it more rewarding to pick a school with a good newspaper. Check the newspaper Web sites of schools that interest you, or have someone send you a few issues of the college paper. When you do a campus visit, drop by the newspaper office. If you want to pursue advanced or specialized studies in journalism, there is a lot of ferment in the field. Schools as disparate as Columbia, Stanford, the City University of New York and Texas Christian University have been rethinking and replenishing their journalism curricula — and those are just a few that have come to my attention. Go forth and report! Jessica seeks a catchy design element for the school paper. I'll ask the aforementioned Tom Bodkin, art director extraordinaire, to recommend some Web sites that might give you inspiration, and I'll insert them in this Q&A when I get them. Tom Bodkin said: This posting on Smashing Magazine shows a selection of pages from some of the better designed newspapers around the world. This is a sometimes interesting blog on the subject of newspaper design. Jasmine and Alissa want to know what to do when a reporter has nothing to write about. Tell him or her to get the heck out of the office. Walk the halls. Wander the campus — and beyond. Call up a member of the school board and ask what's on his or her mind. Keep your eyes open. Ask dumb questions — then ask smarter questions. Troll the city Web site. There are 18,000 people in Albert Lea, and every one of them knows a story, if you can just get it out of him or her. Advertisement The question that made my heart sink a little was yours, Victoria: "How do I know if I should give up all my other dreams for something as unstable as writing?" I don't know your other dreams, but if journalism is one of them it does not have to exclude the others. Journalism is compatible with many lines of work and many other pursuits. I know journalists who are also lawyers, concert-level pianists, poets, novelists and medical doctors. I know people who have jumped from careers in journalism to careers in teaching, diplomacy and investment banking. (Speaking of unstable career choices!) If you know how to gather information, test it, organize it and interpret it, if you can share it in language that is clear — maybe even beautiful at times — if you can do that, the world has a place for you even if, God forbid, newspapers all die. And, finally, no, Daniel, I do not have a parking space. Like most people in New York City, I take the subway to work. If I overlooked anyone, I apologize. Thanks for your interest. When Will Web Site Be Redesigned? Q. When is the next Web site redesign? A lot has changed since 2005 and I've only seen incremental changes to the site (and by site, I really mean the home page and the article pages) over all (on the surface at least) and when it happens will there be a shift from the current restrictive layout? Q. Out of curiosity, and under the heading of The New York Times being somehow aware of “customer service” re: your shrinking client base, why is there not a link to The International Herald Tribune on your New York Times Web site, instead of forcing your readers/subscribers to inconveniently go to your I.H.T. Web site separately? A. Jim Roberts, the associate managing editor who oversees the digital news operation, reminds me that we launched the most recent redesign of the site in April 2006. In newspaper terms, that's still pretty fresh, but on the Web, where things seem to change at the speed of light, three years can seem like an eternity. Mr. Reynolds is right in pointing out that the changes since then have been incremental. But there have been a lot of them, and taken together, the home page (not to mention the site as a whole ) is quite different from what we were offering at this time in 2006. As I write this, in fact, there's a piece of video embedded at the top of the home page (on the Nazi story), and we've frequently presented live video and animated, interactive graphics on the home page. On inauguration day, we heard from many readers that our live feed of President Obama's swearing-in ceremony was better and more reliable than the major cable TV Web sites. During the campaign season, we often presented maps with constant streams of data being fed into them. By the way, some of the creative minds behind our interactive innovation answered questions in this spot recently. If you want to know why the supposedly gray lady is so much more spry than other news Web sites, check it out. Or read the adoring profile of them in New York Magazine, which hails our Web site as "not a cheap imitation of a print newspaper but a vastly superior version of one. It may be the only happy story in journalism." Well, not the only one. But a happy story. While I'm kvelling (as the nuns at St. Matthew's didn't teach me to say) let me brag on a few other things. Users can now hit the Times Extra button at the top of the page and be presented with packages of links to articles and blog posts in different publications on subjects related to the main news stories of the day. And deeper into the site, we've redesigned many of our photo slide show presentations and now offer a wide array of interactive multimedia like this view of President Obama's inauguration. We have spent some time discussing a redesign; we'd be foolish not to take a critical look at what works and what doesn't. But altogether, we feel that the site is hugely successful. Twenty-million unique users is nearly double what we could claim at the time of the redesign. Should we fix something that isn't obviously broken? In addition, a top-to-bottom redesign is a hugely complicated and time-consuming undertaking. All that said, we are always looking for ways of improving the presentation of our report and we will soon roll out some changes to our article pages, which we hope will allow users to better connect with audio, video and other material related to the stories they read. As to the question about the International Herald Tribune — which we now think of as our global editions, published in Paris and Hong Kong — this spring NYTimes.com and IHT.com will be conjoined. You don't want to know (and I don't understand it well enough to tell you) the technological and design challenges this project presented, but the result is this: The Web site will offer all users, here and abroad, the choice of two home pages, the existing one, tailored more for a domestic audience, and the global home page, which focuses more on international news and features and incorporates unique content from the I.H.T. There will also be optional global pages on business, arts, sports, style and opinion. You'll be able to toggle back and forth if you want. Watch for that at the end of March. Coverage of the Metropolitan Region Q. I have noticed that The Times has rebranded its metropolitan-area coverage to focus on New York, instead of the “metro,” the larger urban-suburban area that makes up a 20 million-plus region (statistic includes Duchess County, N.Y., New Haven County, Conn., and Mercer County, N.J.). Is there a concern that by focusing on mainly affluent Manhattan residents (as well as pockets of liberal-leaning Times readers in Brooklyn and Queens) that you will be alienating loyal readers who have turned to the Metro section for coverage in places like Connecticut, New Jersey, Long Island and the northern New York suburbs? (Keep in mind that The Times distinguished itself for breaking very big New Jersey stories, e.g., alleged abuses among State Police, Robert Torricelli’s alleged ethical lapses.) Q. As a reader in New Jersey I'm upset that since last summer The Times has virtually stopped covering New Jersey (as well as other suburban areas of New York) in its news pages. New Jersey and the other New York suburbs are home to a large percentage of Times readers, possibly more than in New York City itself but the Times metro report on most days contains stories only about New York City. Even online there is no suburban equivalent of the City Room blog (why not blogs for New Jersey, Long Island, the northern suburbs and Connecticut?). While I am aware of the financial challenges The Times faces, is it really the best use of the paper's resources to have reporters who until last year might have coverewd important New Jersey issues instead write about weighty issues, like describing various rooms in New York City? In July, Joe Sexton, the metro editor, said in a Talk to the Newsroom session that David Kocieniewski would continue to cover the state but I have only seen a few stories from him in the paper since then. Most of his stories recently have been about Charles Rangel, who does not represent New Jersey. There has even been the unususal spectacle of the editorial page commenting on New Jersey issues that have never been mentioned in the news pages. On Dec. 31 the editorial page even lamented the decline of coverage of New Jersey affairs in the media in general. The Times is just as guilty as anyone else of this. The Times presence in New Jersey is greatly missed and I hope that it returns to the state very soon. A. The honest answer, of course, is that there is less coverage of the region beyond New York City, and that the hurt for many is real, especially with local papers almost everywhere withering under economic pressure. The Times retains a strong interest in the wider metropolis and the tri-state area, where many readers (not to mention, a fair number of our journalists) live. Peter Applebome continues, with tenacity and tenderness, to bring the region to life in his columns, whether the subject is controversial gas drilling in upstate New York or the Lautenberg Senate race or the role of football and athletics at Rutgers University. Anne Barnard has done some intrepid, important work on the immigrant killing on Long Island. Patrick McGeehan and David Chen have got at parts of New Jersey's giant economic problems. Winnie Hu, who has been covering education outside the city limits for two years, regularly mines stories of significance and reach in the worlds of public and private schooling. The regional weeklies offer vibrant material, and with each passing week they have a more robust and ambitious Web presence, divided up exactly as Mr. Kimmelman proposes. Tina Kelley is exploring a hyper-local blog in New Jersey. We invite you and other readers to keep at us, with ideas and insistence. But the fact is, The Times has never pretended to be the local newspaper for every community in the region. We've never had the legions of reporters we would need to watch every city, every township, every police department, every school district, every planning commission, every local sports league, etc., etc. As long as there has been a New York Times, we have concentrated our firepower on the institutions that affect the most people, and covered the rest thematically, or when a big story breaks. Thus we cover intensively New York's city government, including the country's largest school system and the police department; the state government; the Metropolitan Transportation Authority; the Port Authority and so on. Elsewhere we pick our shots, and we can't pick as many of them as we used to, or as we wish. Beyond that, it has long been the case — especially since The Times became a truly national newspaper — that our readers were defined more by demographics than geography. It is a more educated, curious, engaged, relatively successful readership that cares about the world, about business and economics, about politics, about the arts, about science and education, that expects more than scores and celebrities in its coverage of popular culture and sports and fashion. There are plenty of those readers in New Jersey and Connecticut, on Long Island and in the Hudson Valley. Paying for Online News, Continued Q. I absolutely could not do without the New York Times Web site; it is my news source without exception, and I check it many times a day for breaking news. I also spend hours perusing everything from business briefs, to all the arts coverage, to the your amazing columnists (I miss yours, by the way, but I do love Gail Collins!), and everything in between. I love the specialist blogs — Maira Kalman especially, but also Judith Warner and others. I am a devotee, something I'm sorry I couldn't have said about the paper version, before the advent of the Web. My life just doesn't conform to sitting and reading a newspaper — I teach high school, getting up at 5:30 and juggling eight million kids, questions, and handouts every day. But there's always a spare corner for the Web site, and I just cherish it. What can a person like me do to help your stellar organization stay afloat? I pay for my crossword subscription, and I paid for the columnist content, when that was required, and I suppose the answer is, subscribe to the paper as a chip-in. But is there anything else you can suggest? I would send a donation, like public radio, if I thought it would help. Q. I just read an Op-Ed piece in The Los Angeles Times about newspapers charging fees for online access. I have no problem with that. I "treasure" my access to The New York Times. I do, and will continue to subscribe to the crossword puzzle. If you charge for access, will you have a tiered subscription rate? I realize it would be difficult and a big hassle to verify income in order to justify subscriptions based on income levels. I was "bereft" when Times Select prevented me from affording my favorite columnists. I exist on Social Security plus occasional freelance articles ($800 last year) and part-time work, when it's available. It isn't now. For you, it would be a question of whether you could make on quantity at low rates, an equivalent of quality rate subscriptions like Times Select. In any case, I hope you keep in mind that some intelligent fans of The New York Times have realized lower incomes and have hard choices on discretionary income. Thank you! And good luck in this climate! Q. Frankly, the Times is an absolutely priceless asset. I'm worried that in today's climate you aren't able to make enough money from ads. Yet I get my priceless asset free every day over the Internet (I do take the weekend hard copy delivered special that is heavily advertised — it still is nice to hold a traditional paper once in a while.) I travel a lot. The Web edition is perfect for me and in some ways even better than the hard copy (interviews, YouTube, etc.), even when I'm home. So here's the question. The Wall Street Journal charges for its Internet access. In today's climate I'm not looking to spend more ... but I just can't live without the same quality, and independence, that The Times shows day after day, section after section. And this country and the world seriously need a vital, viable, watchdog fourth estate! So if you need to charge, why not get on with it? Q. I am and have long been an avid daily reader of the Times. That’s not to say I have been a subscriber — since news was first available electronically, I have preferred to receive it in that medium, rather than printed on paper. My question to you is, how do you intend to generate a revenue stream from digital news? I would gladly pay a fair subscription rate, say in the neighborhood of $50 per year, to view an electronic version of The Times that has fewer advertisement interruptions. I do not wish to see the demise of The Times and I’m rather ashamed of being a freeloader. Q. I enjoy reading The New York Times, but because of my own economic situation, my print subscription is now limited to the Sunday paper. I read The New York Times online several times each day. As my preferred news source, I am interested in the continued viability of The Times. In what ways might The New York Times benefit from an outreach to current NYTimes.com readers for revenue model ideas and proposals? The Obama-Biden transition tried such an approach through Transition.gov with respect to the incoming president's agenda. The limits of this approach were evident, I think, in that the top issue was legalization of marijuana. Single top issue aside, however, I wonder if mining your current online readers for their ideas might be a useful adjunct to your internal brainstorming efforts and analysis and the use of consultants. In the era of open source, easy access information, a grass-roots market research approach might identify models that have inherent acceptability. Q. Take heart. Have courage. I agree with Jill Lepore in the most recent New Yorker that the reports of the death of print journalism, especially the daily newspaper, are wildly premature. As much as I love the New York Times website, I like the print version even more, but at $1.50/copy I now need to be judicious in when I buy it. The portability of a broad sheet — properly folded for ease of reading on crowded commuter trains, buses and subways, should sustain The Times for some time to come. I dare say the print version. The online version functionally replaces TV for people who think they like to think. It too has great add-ons: my favorites — Stanley Fish and Errol Morris. What one gains in depth — e.g. links to primary sources and related information with the online version, one loses in the depth and serendipity of the print version. (Incidentally, I visit and read your younger sister paper The Boston Globe just as frequently or more so.) Good luck through these hard times, but I feel certain newspapers will be with us at the “end of days,” and live past computers and TVs. Question: How do you stay sane? Q. Living in southwestern Virginia, I have to travel 25 miles to purchase The New York Times. So, as others have said to you, I am daily amazed that I can receive this great newspaper online ... and free of charge. I value The Times so greatly that I would certainly be willing to pay to receive it online. By the way, I have a son who lives in Warsaw, Poland, and he reads The Times daily online. Thank you! Q. I am curious as to why you don't impose a modest annual fee for access to your online edition. Just one caveat; no pop-ups! Or perhaps a deluxe online edition for shopaholics in shopping range of Manhattan or ads that would appeal to mail order freaks. You surely have the ability to get the N.S.A. to devise an entry code that would bar free riders. Q. We met a long time ago, when I was on the road in Russia. John McChesney of NPR introduced us. I read your comments regarding payment online for news with great interest, and want to call your attention to my own proposal. (I write a column now for the CBS affiliate in the San Francisco Bay Area.) Payment is not simply workable, which it is, but absolutely essential if national and international news reporting is to survive. But it seems to me that it won't fly if The Times tries it alone. That's also part of what's proposed in the CBS piece. A. I'm having a Sally Field moment. It's genuinely heartening to be reminded how much our readers value what we do. Even the criticism we get — with some alarming exceptions — tends to ride in on the good will of people who regard themselves as family, eager to make us better, rather than antagonists, eager to see us fail. So, thank you, thank you. And the answer to Mr. Fletcher's last question, how do I keep sane, is in messages like these. The discussion of charging readers for Times content stirred up quite a reaction, mostly from people who agree that what we do is too valuable to be given away, some of it from people convinced they know how a pay model would work. We've gotten more than a few offers from readers who want to pay voluntarily. On the cover of Time magazine today Walter Isaacson, the magazine's former managing editor, head of the Aspen Institute and Stakhanovite author of best-selling biographies, sees an annoying paradox of our Web site's dependence on advertising alone: The "bulk of the ad dollars has ended up flowing to groups that did not actually create much content but instead piggybacked on it: search engines, portals and some aggregators," he writes. "Another group that benefits from free journalism is Internet service providers. They get to charge customers $20 to $30 a month for access to the Web's trove of free content and services. As a result, it is not in their interest to facilitate easy ways for media creators to charge for their content. Thus we have a world in which phone companies have accustomed kids to paying up to 20¢ when they send a text message but it seems technologically and psychologically impossible to get people to pay 10¢ for a magazine, newspaper or newscast." Walter, who pioneered the free model when he created Pathfinder in 1994, now argues for a micropayment system -- a news variation on iTunes. I found some things to quarrel with in his essay. He's a little credulous about The Wall Street Journal's online subscription model, which he seems to see as a stroke of modern business acumen. I suspect Rupert Murdoch's decision not to make the Web site free when he bought The Journal had a lot to do with another reality: The Journal's online subscriptions are bundled with print subscriptions, and freeing his online content would have hurt his print circulation, and thus potentially his print advertising revenue. Neither Mr. Murdoch's News Corp. nor The New York Times publishes details of their Web economics, but The Journal lags far behind The Times in Web traffic, and I'd be willing to bet it also lags behind in total revenues. More important, Walter doesn't really grapple with the main puzzle of a pay model: how to keep it from stifling traffic, especially search-driven traffic, so much that online advertisers go away. I'm not saying that problem is insoluble. Just that, as far as I know, no one has solved it yet. By the way, I enjoyed Time's cover photograph of a fish wrapped in The New York Times, a reminder of the many eco-friendly reuses of the newspaper that the Web has yet to match. Papier-mâché. Pirate hats. Gift wrap. Have you ever tried to line a bird cage with Google News? Of course, the cover could have depicted a fish wrapped in Time magazine. Time used to charge for its Web sites (after Walter left) but it was a disaster, and they stopped charging. You can read Walter's essay for free at Time.com and save $4.95. We had a lunch with a group of reporters and editors this week, where conversation ranged across various pay options. In that group, the favorite idea — especially among younger and more Web-centic staffers — was a voluntary pay model. Imagine a digital version of the NPR membership drive, which allows you to be a reader for free, but invites you to be a member/sponsor for a modest fee. (Sorry you missed the lunch, Ms. Hammond. You'd have felt right at home.) All of these are welcome contributions to a discussion that, at The Times, is already in high gear. I'll make sure that whatever fresh ideas arrive through this channel get circulated. In the meantime, for anyone who feels really guilty about getting The Times free, here's a conscience-salving option from my Web site colleague Carla Baranauckas. You can buy a print subscription to be delivered to one of the many schools that use The Times in the classroom. Details here. More on Anonymous Sources Q. Many politicians and high government officials feed stories to journalists on condition that their identity is kept secret. On occasion this information proves to be false, and was leaked with the clear intention of misleading the public. 1 — If a source for a story provides to have provided false information to a journalist, is the confidentiality of that source still protected? 2 — In the case of, say, a politician or their staff, does not the passing of false information in itself represent a story that should be told in full in the public interest, including naming names? 3 — If the journalist protects a tainted source, isn’t he or she acting unethically? 4 — In these circumstances, are not journalists in this position acting as accessories after the fact, misleading the public? 5 — When a journalists fails to expose a tainted sources, isn’t he or she complicit in nurturing the culture of lies that encourages politicians to leak misinformation and manipulate public opinion? In practice, I believe that journalists are not willing to expose tainted sources because they fear that their sources for other stories may dry up for fear of exposure. Q. When your anonymous sources turn out to be wrong, you should identify them and give them a chance to explain why they were wrong, if they want to. All anonymous sources should be put on notice that if they turn out to be wrong, the pledge of anonymity will no longer be operative. I believe The Times is regularly used by political operatives feeding misinformation anonymously to advance their partisan goals. You guys seem to fall for it all the time — indeed you seem to think that is part of being a newspaper. Q. I just read your response to the questions about anonymous sources, and I do understand the need to keep some sources anonymous. But what about “experts” and “critics” and “supporters” — why can’t those people be named, listed, accounted for? I've seen articles where those “experts” are, perhaps, two people with an ax to grind. They may very well be “experts” in some sense, but it’s not exactly a consensus. Why can’t The Times link to a list of those “experts” and “critics” and “supporters?” I really would like more information in those cases. A.Good questions, and well worth reopening the subject of anonymous sources. I would guess that much of the reader wariness of anonymous sources derives from a suspicion that the paper is being used for some undisclosed agenda. When we need to protect a source’s identity, we can alleviate this risk to some extent by making every effort to describe a source’s credibility (is the information first-hand? second-hand?) and motivation. On the issue of what Professor Blutstein calls “tainted sources” — sources who use the cloak of anonymity to lie or mislead — I think most reporters can imagine a situation where they would out a source who fed us bogus information for some malign purpose. A politician knowingly disseminating damaging misinformation about a rival has violated the agreement that protected his identity, and, incidentally, revealed something about his own integrity that voters are probably entitled to know. But I also think most reporters would want this considered on a case-by-case basis. David Barstow, one of our best and most thoughtful investigative reporters, put it this way when I bounced Professor Blutstein’s questions off him: Ideally, as Mr. Barstow has often done, by getting sources on the record. Here’s a real-world case study for you. After Caroline Kennedy withdrew from the competition to fill the vacant New York Senate seat, someone we identified as “a person close to the governor” told reporters that Governor Paterson had already disqualified her, in part because of tax and nanny problems. This was untrue. In this case, The Times and other publications have not identified the source, because it seems likely that the source believed the information to be true. We have, however, traced the information back to the governor’s chief communications strategist, a consultant named Judith A. Smith. We also disclosed that shortly before orchestrating the whisper campaign, the consultant met with the governor. Without outing the original source, who may well have been simply a conduit, we have placed responsibility for the lie very close to the governor. A variation on the theme of being “used” is the case where an official, speaking not for attribution, floats a trial balloon. The story will say something like “the president is considering” or “aides have recommended” a particular course of action. And it is true: the president is considering it, and part of his consideration is to float the idea in the media and see how much opposition it generates. In a case like that, I think the role of the press is harmless or benign, but we must try to let the reader in on the game — that is, let the reader know that this is not a great scoop about an impending action, but a possible option being tested through a leak. On the question of “experts,” etc., I think this is shorthand that has risks and benefits. The main practical benefit is that you do not force readers to endure a litany of witnesses saying the same thing, one after another. News stories are plenty long enough as it is, and a conscientious reporter will not generalize about “experts” unless there is a pretty substantial consensus. The risk is that some readers will suspect that the reporter got a skewed sample, or, worse, picked experts who agreed with the reporter. The idea of identifying experts on the website — essentially, online footnotes — is clever, but a lot of work for reporters and editors who are already working their hearts out. Short of that, I think it’s valuable to be precise (don’t say “experts” if you really mean “some experts,” or “Freudian experts,” or “conservative experts”), to seek out and include dissenting views when there is no consensus, and to note the expertise and possible biases of experts you do quote by name. Concerns About Middle East Coverage Q. Why does a once-great institution like The Times continue to infuse its editorial biases into its news coverage? Why does The Times persist with, for example, what independent studies have demonstrated to be a pronounced anti-Israel bias? (see, e.g., Camera's recent study). Why does The Times limit its readers' exposure to the Israeli perspective on the Mideast conflict, so that the only Israel views that you provide are either far-left Israelis criticizing their county, or far-right Israelis offering objectionable views? The vast majority of Israelis take a much more centrist, reasonable and peace-seeking view. But you decline to present this. You do your readers an extraordinary disservice by treating Israel (which for 60 years has sought peace with its neighbors) as the moral equivalent of the Palestinian terror groups committed to her destruction and to Jewish genocide. I have been reading your paper since sixth grade in the late 1960s, once with pride, now with disgust. I am hardly surprised to see the increasingly dire financial position you now occupy. I canceled my subscription years ago. I hope that someday soon, you will see fit to return The New York Times to its once-valued position as a champion of objective journalism and a broad spectrum of opinions. But I marvel at how you've allowed this great institution to become little more than a shill for its editor's political leanings. You have allowed your self-interest to destroy something great. Isn't that the sort of thing you constantly condemn in our elected officials, business leaders, etc.? Q. Why is the paper's coverage of the Middle East so slanted toward Israel? This is a rhetorical question to state a fact. In 1975 I spent six weeks at Jebaliya Refugee Camp in Gaza reporting on life inside the camp. I was a student at Columbia J-School. I came home with an 80 page manuscript and many photos, describing the very difficult conditions there under Israeli occupation. The Times was interested in the story. I took it there. (Mind you, I was the first American reporter ever seen in Jebaliya. What I wrote had Pulitzer written all over it.) The Times editor who expressed interest led me on (I was 25) for a year. Finally, in frustration, I went back to the paper and asked: "What ARE you doing with that story?" He summarily (literally) threw the copy at me and said The New York Times was not interested. The United States is in a huge jam right now because our government does not really know or understand the Mideast, and knee-jerk support for Israel is bleeding us in every possible way. Part of the reason is the American press, and especially papers like The New York Times. Q. Why has The New York Times refused to label Hamas as a terrorist organization? I don't understand how you can continually refer to them as "militants" or "fighters" rather than what they are, by the nature of their doctrine: terrorists. Globalsecurity.org defines terrorism as "the unlawful use or threatened use of force or violence against people or property to coerce or intimidate governments or societies, often to achieve political, religious, or ideological objectives." Princeton University defines terrorism as "the calculated use of violence (or the threat of violence) against civilians in order to attain goals that are political or religious or ideological in nature; this is done through intimidation or coercion or instilling fear." The United States State Department concluded that "various elements of Hamas have used both political and violent means, including terrorism, to pursue the goal of establishing an Islamic Palestinian state in place of Israel." There are countless reports of rockets being fired indiscriminantly into Israel, and Hamas has claimed responsibility for these attacks. Please tell me how Hamas does not meet the criteria for the defintions of "terrorism" above and why you do not refer to Hamas as a terrorist organization, and its members as "terrorists" in your articles. Hamas doctrine has repeatedly stated that "the state of Israel and all her inhabitants must be exterminated." Q. I greatly appreciate your newspaper. Thank you for your hard work. I have an important question: In light of the Gaza massacre where more than 1,000 people were killed (including many children and women), three United Nations facilities were bombed, white phosphorus and other new weapons were used, why wasn't your paper more condemning of Israel's overuse of force? I also need to point out the political timing aspect of this; the Israeli elections are near. If New York City police fired on fleeing suspects in Times Square, would you be outraged at civilian deaths? I lived in Israel for a year (on a kibbutz) and I respect Israel's right to exist as a country and wish no harm against anyone in Israel. Your paper, if you had given a stronger condemnation of Israel's cruelty, could have saved more civilians. Q. Will The Times ever do a full report on the influence of the Israeli lobby on the United States government? I am not referring to coverage of others who claim that the Israeli lobby in this country has an unhealthy effect on United States overseas policy. What I would like to see is the full Times investigative treatment, the kind of story or series of stories that digs deep and carries the weight of the country's most influential media outlet. I believe the Times is a very good choice for such a mission, given that in years past it too often gave the impression of being a part of the Israeli lobby. (Remember Abe Rosenthal?) Is The Times ready for such a story? The story is there, and it's important. But would The Times ever touch it? Be a hero. All you'd be risking is your job. Q. I have long been puzzled about the difference between the way that the major countries of the West — the United States and the European Union characterize Hamas, as a terrorist organization — and the way The New York Times characterizes Hamas, as a group or some similar neutral language. What are the reasons for the terrorist designation by our State Department and why don’t the serious reasons deserve mention when The Times reports about Hamas? Q. When Hamas held a news conference with the shades pulled to pretend they were in the dark and staged a protest of the absurd regarding Israel’s withholding fuel, why didn’t you expose this and their other ruses as propaganda? I guess my question really is — why do you take Hamas any more seriously than say, the Nazis, who also had a supremacist philosophy, also wanted to exterminate the Jews, and also performed governmental and social service functions? I don’t recall the Nazis getting the same favorable coverage as Hamas. Q. Would you please explain why The New York Times News doesn’t call Palestinian mortar and other attacks against Israeli civilians terrorist attacks, when 9/11 and 7/7 were called terrorism and two ombudsmen and two former Jerusalem bureau chiefs have asked that you call such attacks terrorism? Q. My question to you is about your coverage of the war in Gaza. A Muslim writer claims (falsely) on islamonline.net that the mainstream media was "blocked" by Israel and only "citizen journalists" could cover the war. Was that the case? Did you feel pressured by "citizens journalists"? Do you feel The Times did a good job on Gaza? What was your reason for sending in a pair of reporters — was one Muslim and one Jewish for balance? Or what was this about? Q. What is the reason you prefer to feature pictures of injured Gaza residents rather than scenes of destruction and injury to Israelis? Q. Why does The Times use the verb "lob" to describe Gazan rocket attacks? Why not write about "firing rockets"? It seems like an inappropriate term, regardless of the rockets' accuracy. A. This is not a Sally Field moment. What you see above is a sampling of the more civil letters on this subject. Some of the readers represented here are frequent correspondents. When the author of Proverbs wrote 15:1 ("a gentle answer turneth away wrath") he clearly didn't foresee the passions that would beset his neighborhood a couple of millenia later. Gentle — and thoughtful, and agonized, and heartfelt — answers have consistently failed to turn away the wrath of those who believe that The Times is a captive of one side or the other, that our reporters in the field march to some partisan tune, that the articles and photographs we publish are part of a campaign to demonize Israel or, alternatively, to do the bidding of some Jewish cabal. My colleague Ethan Bronner, who has covered the Middle East with distinction off and on for more than 25 years, most recently as our current Jerusalem bureau chief, wrote a splendid essay in our Week in Review section the Sunday before last about the furies that encircle a reporter attempting to cover the conflict in Gaza fully and fairly. The essay — a gentle answer from a conscientious journalist — explains how "the war of language can confound a reporter's attempts to narrate — or a new president's attempts to mediate — this conflict in a way both sides can accept as fair." I urge you to read it. Jill Abramson, our managing editor for news, answered many of the same questions in her own online Q&A with readers last month. Our public editor, Clark Hoyt, weighed in on the question of balance in Middle East coverage on Jan. 11, and on the use of the label "terrorist" on Dec. 13. On the question of when we do or do not attach the label "terrorist" to a group or a person or an act, I recommend a note for the files written by James Bennet, now editor of The Atlantic, after he finished a tour as The Times's Jerusalem bureau chief in 2004. Mr. Hoyt quoted from it in his column on the subject, but I've had it put into our archive and you can read the whole thing here. I can't improve on Ethan's essay, or on James's memo. Even if you don't agree with everything they say, I think you'll be impressed by the intensity of thought and the depth of good will they, and we, pour into this subject. I'll use this space to make a few personal observations about the larger mission of journalism as we attempt to practice it at The New York Times. First, about language. Words are the main tools of our craft. They can be used to inform and explain. They can also be used to inflame, or to pander. The tabloid press has a vocabulary of headline words — HERO, THUG, MADMAN — that are aimed not at the minds of readers, or even at their hearts, but at their viscera. Over time, the promiscuous use of such overheated language and adolescent name-calling cheapens both the language and the user. And it is insulting to readers. It tells you what you are supposed to think, implying you are too stupid or insensitive to make your own judgment. I prefer to think that readers of The New York Times do not need to be treated like fools. Words can also be a litmus test, a password to establish your adherence to a particular point of view. To describe a politician as "liberal" or "conservative" (while almost always inexact) is generally neutral. To describe the same politician as "left-wing" or "right-wing" may say more about you than about your subject. It identifies you. So, to bring this back to the Middle East: You can write about a Hamas suicide bomber erupting in a restaurant, describe the carnage of innocents in such heartbreaking detail that the stoniest reader will feel a surge of pain and fury — and yet, for a certain reader, if you neglect to use the word "terrorist" in the story, it's as if you have whitewashed the evil. Of course a person who sets out to inflict such horror is a terrorist, commiting a terrorist act, and there is nothing inherently wrong with saying so. But using the word does not add anything to our understanding. It does not convey information. If it is included because one set of readers demand it, then it is a watchword, a signal — in my view, a patronizing signal — that we are on board. Is aiming rockets at Israeli civilians a terrorist act? Yes, even if Hamas calls it retaliation. The rockets are intended to, and do, terrorize. We have no rule against saying so, and we have said so. We avoid using the word reflexively, automatically, as a moral mantra or a statement of political affiliation. Is Hamas a terrorist organization? Well, that's a little more complicated — and complication is not popular in the land of moral clarity. Hamas commits terrorist acts. Hamas is also a political organization. (It stood for, and won, an election in Gaza.) Hamas is also a military organization, in that it wages war by means more conventional than suicide bombs and terrorizing rockets. Hamas is also a charitable organization, which built much of its popular support by tending to the suffering of Palestinians. To describe Hamas as "a terrorist organization" strikes a pose, allies us with a point of view (including the United States government's official point of view) but it is reductionist — that is, it reduces Hamas to its vilest component. And it is politically prescriptive, at least by implication, since defining Hamas as a terrorist organization all but says they have no place at any negotiating table. We should not and do not gloss over the appalling things Hamas has done, but it is still sloppy journalism to refer to Hamas flatly as "a terrorist organization." Second, about balance. Many of the letters we get, and some of the "independent studies" that purport to unearth media bias, depend on superficial and debatable metrics that have little to do with either science or journalism. They count things like the number of "pro-Israel" quotes versus the number of "pro-Palestinian" quotes, whatever that means, or the number, size and placement of photographs, or the column inches devoted to Palestinian funerals versus Israeli funerals, and so on. Clark Hoyt deals with this in his January column. We certainly try to keep an informal sense of proportion, and Mr. Hoyt concludes that we are mostly successful, but these measures do not amount to balance in an any meaningful sense. I believe balance means we attempt in story after story to distinguish verified fact from allegation, to put the events in context, to reflect dissenting views without conferring unwarranted credibility, in short, to give the fullest possible picture without being disarmed by the passions of any side. Balance means that we supply you, the reader, with all you need to know to render an intelligent judgment of your own, not that we insist on making that judgment on your behalf. Third, about motives. It may be unpleasant to be called on errors or to have our analysis of events challenged, but that is a natural part of our give and take with our audience. What is most disheartening about this discussion is the assumption — not on the part of the majority of readers, but by the vocal minorities whose minds are sealed in a bunker of righteousness — of bad faith, of bigotry, and even of outright conspiracy. Ethan Bronner's essay sampled a bit of the hate mail that invariably comes with this assignment. He left out some of the most venemous. Covering the Middle East is grueling work, emotionally taxing, intellectually challenging and sometimes physically perilous. The reporters who do it expect to be second-guessed, but they don't deserve to be vilified. Finally, a last kvell before I conclude my week as blogger-in-chief: I think our coverage of the most recent conflict in Gaza — by Mr. Bronner, by former Jerusalem bureau chief Steve Erlanger, by our brave and dogged Gaza stringer, Taghreed el-Khodary, by our Jerusalem reporter Isabel Kershner, by our Istanbul bureau chief, Sabrina Tavernise, and by photographers Tyler Hicks, Moises Saman and Rina Castelnuovo — has been stunning. It has been vivid, honest, deep and thoughtful. It was, in the sense I described above, balanced. It was difficult and sometimes dangerous work. Israel prohibited foreign journalists, including ours, from entering Gaza for many days. We were fortunate to have Ms. el-Khodary already in Gaza, who bore witness both to the damage wrought by Israeli firepower and to the fact that Hamas was launching rockets at Israel from civilian neighborhoods. Of her many fine reports, one that has stuck with me for weeks is her very brief, chilling page-one encounter with an injured Palestinian jihadi, swaggering into an overworked hospital, demanding to be treated first, and announcing that civilians should be happy to be martyred for his cause. The coverage included extensive reporting on the carnage in both Gaza and Israel, incisive analysis of the political calculus on both sides fair-minded investigation of allegations (including the charges by some human rights groups that Israel had committed "war crimes.") And when the Israelis and Hamas finally, fitfully ceased fire, our reporters did not. They should be proud of their work. I am. Go to Home Page »
Food   Mark Bittman. Channels & Shows Home Search Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Mark Bittman, author of “The Minimalist” and “How to Cook Everything,” shares the kitchen with some of the most influential and inventive chefs from around the globe. Recent Episodes in Mark Bittman   Mark Bittman: California Matters 5:18 Chop Suey’s Next Wave   Mark Bittman: California Matters 4:29 A Walk on the Wild (Edibles) Side Mark Bittman 2:41 The Scramble: A Simple Greek Lunch Mark Bittman 4:12 The Rollout: An Ikarian Greens Pie Mark Bittman 2:32 Lorna Sass’s Pressure-Cooker Meatballs Mark Bittman 3:05 Claudia Fleming's Apple Crumb Crostata Mark Bittman 3:15 Danny Bowien’s Thanksgiving Pastrami Mark Bittman 2:38 André Soltner's Pumpkin Soup Mark Bittman 2:59 April Bloomfield's Clam Chowder Show more videos from Mark Bittman Most Popular 1 World A Dyeing Life 2 Opinion Caitlyn Jenner Meets Her Critics 3 U.S. Copwatch vs. Cops: After Freddie Gray 4 Opinion A Conversation With Asian-Americans on Race 5 U.S. Best of Obama's Correspondents' Dinner Speech 6 Opinion Manufacturing China’s Future 7 U.S. Trump’s History of Encouraging Violence 8 U.S. Welfare and the Politics of Poverty 9 Opinion I Think This Is the Closest to How the Footage Looked 10 World Thai King Makes Rare Appearance © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Foreign   Georgia: Opposition Demands President’s Resignation. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content Skip to navigation View mobile version The New York Times Europe|Georgia: Opposition Demands President’s Resignation Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Supported by Europe | World Briefing | Europe Georgia: Opposition Demands President’s Resignation By OLESYA VARTANYANJAN. 30, 2009 Continue reading the main story Share This Page Continue reading the main story Georgia’s scattered political opposition gathered Thursday to demand the resignation of the president, Mikheil Saakashvili, and call for early presidential and parliamentary elections. Among the figures backing the declaration were Nino Burdzhanadze, Mr. Saakashvili’s partner in the revolution that brought him to power, and Irakli Alasania, who recently left his post as Georgia’s ambassador to the United Nations. A version of this brief appears in print on , on page A10 of the New York edition with the headline: Georgia: Opposition Demands President’s Resignation. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Continue reading the main story What's Next Loading... Go to Home Page » Site Index The New York Times Site Index Navigation News World U.S. Politics N.Y. Business Tech Science Health Sports Education Obituaries Today's Paper Corrections Opinion Today's Opinion Op-Ed Columnists Editorials Contributing Writers Op-Ed Contributors Opinionator Letters Sunday Review Taking Note Room for Debate Public Editor Video: Opinion Arts Today's Arts Art & Design ArtsBeat Books Dance Movies Music N.Y.C. Events Guide Television Theater Video: Arts Living Automobiles Crossword Food Education Fashion & Style Health Jobs Magazine N.Y.C. Events Guide Real Estate T Magazine Travel Weddings & Celebrations Listings & More Classifieds Tools & Services Times Topics Public Editor N.Y.C. Events Guide Blogs Multimedia Photography Video NYT Store Times Journeys Subscribe Manage My Account Subscribe Subscribe Times Insider Home Delivery Digital Subscriptions NYT Opinion Crossword Email Newsletters Alerts Gift Subscriptions Corporate Subscriptions Education Rate Mobile Applications Replica Edition International New York Times Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Movies   Daily Baggage: Jan. 30. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos Daily Baggage Daily Baggage: Jan. 30 By David Carr | Jan. 30, 2009 | 1:27 The Bagger discusses the cultural benefits of the Oscars, including talk of "Frozen River." Show More PlaylistUp Next in Daily Baggage ← PreviousNext →   Daily Baggage1:54 Daily Baggage: Feb. 13   Daily Baggage1:26 Daily Baggage: Feb. 12   Daily Baggage1:38 Daily Baggage: Feb. 11   Daily Baggage1:19 Daily Baggage: Feb. 10   Daily Baggage1:55 Daily Baggage: Feb. 9   Daily Baggage1:58 Daily Baggage: Feb. 6   Daily Baggage1:19 Daily Baggage: Feb. 5   Daily Baggage1:43 Daily Baggage: Feb. 4   Daily Baggage1:20 Daily Baggage: Feb. 3   Daily Baggage1:17 Super Bowl and Oscars, The Great Uniters   Now Playing Daily Baggage1:27 Daily Baggage: Jan. 30   Daily Baggage2:10 Daily Baggage: Jan. 29   Daily Baggage1:32 Daily Baggage: Jan. 28   Daily Baggage1:50 Daily Baggage: Jan. 15   Daily Baggage1:27 Daily Baggage: Jan. 14   Daily Baggage1:44 Daily Baggage: Jan. 13   Daily Baggage1:39 Daily Baggage: Jan. 12   Daily Baggage1:23 Daily Baggage: Jan. 9   Daily Baggage1:53 Daily Baggage: Jan. 8   Daily Baggage2:13 Daily Baggage: Jan. 7   Daily Baggage2:21 Daily Baggage: Jan. 6 © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Obituary   Leonard Memorial Set. campaign: abTest_bar1_wm_bau_offer_0416 -- 283511, creative: abTest_bar1_wm_bau_offer_0416_ad -- 413127, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/archives, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article, position: Bar1 Log In Register Now Help Home Page Today's Paper Video Most Popular Edition: U.S. / Global Search All NYTimes.com World U.S. N.Y. / Region Business Technology Science Health Sports Opinion Arts Style Travel Jobs Real Estate Autos Leonard Memorial Set Published: January 30, 2009 A memorial service for the editor, novelist and critic John Leonard, who died Nov. 5, will be held at 6 p.m. March 2 at Landmark on the Park, the event space of the Fourth Universalist Society, at 160 Central Park West, between 75th and 76th Streets in Manhattan. Scheduled speakers include the writers Toni Morrison, Victor Navasky and Gloria Steinem. The flutist Eugenia Zukerman is to perform. The public is invited, and admission is free.   Inside NYTimes.com Health » Too Hot to Handle Arts » The Harmony of Liberty Opinion » Should Beach Privatization Be Allowed? Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers. Sports » A Woman’s Leadership May Steady Murray Opinion » Menagerie: Streaming Eagles U.S. » Curlers’ Aim: Sweep to a Win Over the Heat Television » The Cold War Brews Anew in Prime Time Book Review » Command Performance Opinion » Op-Ed: Fooling Mexican Fans World » Reading, Writing and Allegations Opinion » Op-Ed: Elite, Separate, Unequal New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse. Business » Vice Has Media Giants Salivating © 2016 The New York Times Company Site Map Privacy Your Ad Choices Advertise Terms of Sale Terms of Service Work With Us RSS Help Contact Us Site Feedback campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_personalized_isEDU_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/archives, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article, position: Inv1
Science   ‘Putrid’ Peanuts, Soldier Suicides and the Octupulets’ Six Siblings. Advertisement Advertisement By RONI CARYN RABINJAN. 30, 2009 Report: Octuplets' Mother Already Had Six Children The California mother who gave birth to octuplets on Monday already has six children between the ages of 2 and 7, including a set of twins, The Los Angeles Times reports. The woman's mother told the paper that her daughter had the embryos implanted last year and refused to reduce their number after learning she was carrying multiple fetuses. Canada Rejected Shipment From Peanut Company Weeks before the salmonella outbreak, a shipment of peanuts from Peanut Corp. of America was rejected by Canadian authorities and returned to the United States, The Associated Press reports. The peanuts were not allowed back in the country because the shipment contained a "filthy, putrid or decomposed substance," according to a U.S. Food and Drug Administration report. Federal officials apparently did not pursue the matter and perform further testing. Suicides Reach Record Level in U.S. Army Suicides among soldiers in the U.S. Army are at a three-decade high, defense officials told The Associated Press. At least 128 soldiers killed themselves last year, and the final count may be higher, because more than a dozen suspicious deaths are still being investigated. There were 115 suicides in 2007 and 102 in 2006; this year's figure is the highest since record-keeping began in 1980. Boston Parents Perplexed by Controversy Over Child Psychiatrist Parents of patients who were treated by prominent psychiatrist Dr. Joseph Biederman in Boston are baffled by reports that he accepted huge consulting fees from drug companies, The Boston Globe reports. The parents describe him as a careful and supportive doctor who monitored medications closely and was always available when they needed him. Ebola Strain Spreads in Philippines Four more people in the Philippines have been infected by the Ebola-Reston virus, Reuters reports. Health officials there say pig-to-human transmission is a possibility but not a major health risk. Go to Home Page »
Sports   Union Sees Gains in N.F.L. Bottom Line. Advertisement Advertisement By JUDY BATTISTAJAN. 30, 2009 TAMPA, Fla. — After a contentious search process, N.F.L. players will select a new union chief in six weeks, and that’s when the real contentions will begin. The union said here Thursday that a study it commissioned showed that teams made an average profit of at least $24 million last year, even though owners, who have opted out of the existing labor agreement, have claimed that the financial crisis is squeezing their margins, and has caused some teams and the league office to lay off employees. Players receive about 60 percent of revenue, a figure that owners said was untenable when they opted out of the agreement last spring, only two years after the deal was struck. “The bottom line for players is they want to retain and improve upon what they already have in the collective bargaining agreement,” said Richard Berthelsen, the union’s acting executive director. “Football is a very good business. The revenue pie has continued to grow. The players see no reason why their slice of that pie should be any smaller in the future.” The 2009 season will be the final one with a salary cap unless a new deal is reached before the next league year begins in March 2010. Gene Upshaw, the union’s longtime executive director, died last August. Berthelsen said the league had told him that it would make no new offer in negotiations until the union selected Upshaw’s successor. Advertisement If a new deal is not reached before the start of the 2010 league year, the 2010 season will be played with no cap. Kevin Mawae, the union’s president, on Thursday reiterated one of Upshaw’s central bargaining positions: that if the cap ever goes, players would never accept it again. Mawae said a system without a cap could only benefit players, but the lack of an agreement could also end with a doomsday scenario: a lockout that would test the resolve of players to stick together. EAGLES’ JOHNSON HAS CANCER Philadelphia’s defensive coordinator, Jim Johnson, has had a recurrence of skin cancer, this time in his spine. The Eagles’ trainer, Rick Burkholder, told both The Philadelphia Inquirer and The Philadelphia Daily News on Thursday that Johnson was diagnosed as having melanoma on Monday at Pennsylvania Hospital. Burkholder said Johnson had begun radiation treatments at Bryn Mawr Hospital. Burkholder said Johnson had a bone tumor in his back, in the same area where skin cancer was diagnosed in 2001. No surgery is scheduled for Johnson and he intends to continue coaching, Burkholder said. (AP) HART A PROUD ALUMNUS No, Jim Hart said, he did not think the Cardinals would make the Super Bowl in his lifetime. But he is now a believer. Hart, the former St. Louis Cardinals quarterback, proudly wore a Cardinals Alumni jacket Thursday at a news conference for Gridiron Greats, a nonprofit organization that provides financial assistance for retired N.F.L. players. “I think they’ll be a force to be reckoned with for a long time,” Hart, 64, said. The last time the Cardinals were a title contender, Hart was their quarterback, leading the Cardiac Cardinals to the playoffs in 1974 and 1975. They did not win a playoff game under Hart, who was in St. Louis for 18 seasons and remained popular there after his retirement in 1984. A few years later, the Cardinals departed for Phoenix, and St. Louis was football-less until the Rams arrived in 1995, forging their own identity late in the decade by winning the Super Bowl. “Those of us in St. Louis thought that we were a group of guys without a team,” said Hart, the Cardinals’ career passing leader. “Because after the Rams won, they didn’t want anything to do with us, either. Then, of course, with the Cardinals being gone, the distance made it not real conducive to staying in touch. So when people ask about my team leaving St. Louis, I say: ‘My team didn’t leave. The players that I played with, most of them, are still in St. Louis, and that’s my team.’ ”(NAILA-JEAN MEYERS ) Advertisement STEELER INJURY CONCERNS For the first time this week, Hines Ward’s knee was not the only talked-about body part. Attention on Thursday turned to Ben Roethlisberger’s back. “Ben’s health is often the subject of inaccurate reports,” Coach Mike Tomlin told the designated pool reporter after practice. “He’s fine.” According to the pool report, Roethlisberger appeared to be trying to stretch his mid-torso region during practice, but otherwise he had an effective workout in the rain. Roethlisberger was hit hard in the ribs/back area in the A.F.C. championship game against Baltimore, but did not miss a play. Ward, who has faced questions for two weeks about his sprained right knee, practiced for the first time since being hurt in the A.F.C title game. Ward worked with the regular offense, blocking and catching passes but running at three-quarters speed. (NAILA-JEAN MEYERS) A version of this article appears in print on , on page B12 of the New York edition with the headline: Union Sees Gains in N.F.L. Bottom Line. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Travel   A Weekend in Vail. Subscribe Now Subscribe campaign: inyt2015_bar1_digi_usd_4L9UF -- 277474, creative: inyt2015_bar1_digi_buttononly_usd_4L9UF -- 406560, page: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/travel/0201-vail.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/travel, position: Bar1 Log In Register Now Help More Slide Shows Travel Search Slide Shows All Multimedia » Close A Weekend in Vail « Previous 1 of 10 Next » Sign In to E-Mail Vail boasts 5,300 skiable acres, 193 trails and seven bowls. But that hasn't stopped it from polishing its base village. This winter, skiers are checking into new boutique hotels with ski valets, getting pine-scented massages at Zen-channeling spas and warming themselves by outdoor fire pits. Credit: Kevin Moloney for The New York Times Related Article: 36 Hours in Vail, Colo. Travel Guide: Skiing Home Travel © 2011 The New York Times Company Privacy Policy Your Ad Choices Contact Us Help Work for Us Site Map campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_personalized_isEDU_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/travel/0201-vail.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/travel, position: Inv1
Washington   Talking Softly About Democracy Promotion. Advertisement Advertisement By HELENE COOPERJAN. 29, 2009 WASHINGTON — Here is one thing on which democracy experts agree: When Barack Obama took the oath of office last Tuesday, he did more in one instant, as a minority candidate, to promote the American ideal of democracy to the outside world than any of his predecessors ever could. In both developed and developing autocracies, the election of a minority candidate stands as a powerful example of the American democratic model. But what concrete steps will Mr. Obama take to promote democracy? The mixed results of President Bush’s freedom agenda left some proponents queasy about even using the word “democracy” overseas. His administration got elections in Iraq and Afghanistan only after invading those countries, and it encouraged them in the Palestinian territories only to reject the results when Hamas, the militant Islamist organization, won. During his second inaugural address in 2005, Mr. Bush used soaring language to lay out his freedom agenda. The words “freedom,” “free,” and “liberty” appeared 49 times, as Mr. Bush expounded on democracy as a retrospective justification for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, and his vision of America’s mission in the world. “The survival of liberty in our land increasingly depends on the success of liberty in other lands,” Mr. Bush said. “The best hope for peace in our world is the expansion of freedom in all the world.” Advertisement Now, some of Mr. Obama’s aides are suggesting that he “talk less and do more,” in the words of Michael McFaul, who advises Mr. Obama on both Russia and democracy issues and is likely to be headed to the White House staff. “President Bush delivered several lofty speeches explaining why the United States should promote freedom, yet Ayman Nour sits in jail in Egypt,” Mr. McFaul said in a paper he prepared last year on how the United States should support democracy abroad. He was referring to the main opponent of President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt in the 2005 elections, who was imprisoned on fraud charges that Mr. Nour’s supporters regarded as politically motivated. But “rather than speeches or even grand goals,” Mr. McFaul said, “the next administration should seek to achieve small, concrete outcomes that advance political freedoms in very tangible ways and do so, without talking about doing so.” To be sure, Mr. Bush raised the issue of Mr. Nour with Mr. Mubarak as recently as last May, and he has that he believes Mr. Nour has been unjustly imprisoned. But Mr. Bush did not come to office in 2001 with big promises about democracy promotion; indeed, his initial foreign policy agenda was stingy on the nation-building front. After Sept. 11, 2001, Mr. Bush and his aides decided that autocratic regimes, particularly in the Middle East, fostered hopelessness that led to the attacks on the United States. From then on, Mr. Bush’s national security agenda elevated democracy promotion to be a central objective of foreign policy. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice followed her boss’s 2005 inauguration freedom speech with one of her own, in Cairo a few months later. She called on America’s closest allies in the Arab world, Egypt and Saudi Arabia, to embrace democracy by holding fair elections, releasing political prisoners and allowing free expression and rights for women. The trouble, according to Francis Fukuyama, a political economist at Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies, was that the United States was perceived as insincere, given the Iraq War, the Abu Ghraib prison scandal, the military prisons at Guantánamo Bay and other assorted policies. “The problem with Bush’s legacy is they tied democracy promotion so much to the Iraq war justification and the war on terrorism that it made American policy look hypocritical,” Mr. Fukuyama said. “If you use the language that Bush used in the second inaugural, all of that soaring rhetoric, it’s going to make you look stupid when Hamas comes to power.” Advertisement He and other democracy experts do credit Mr. Bush with creating the Millennium Challenge Account, which greatly increased United States foreign aid to countries that practiced good government and met certain specific goals. In addition, Mr. Bush greatly increased the amount of money the United States spent to fight AIDS and malaria overseas, an initiative that — which experts say are initiatives that can lead to democracy by first helping poor people get access to the basic tools they need to live. Mr. Obama’s aides say that he will probably continue the Millennium Challenge program. Beyond that, it is unclear what specific steps Mr. Obama intends to take on democracy promotion. Making good on his promise to shut down the detention camp at Guantánamo Bay could be viewed as a step towards democracy promotion, some experts said. Mr. Obama has also promised to increase United States foreign assistance to $50 billion by 2012. But he made that promise before the economic crisis erupted last fall, and fiscal constraints, along with America-first politics, could force him to cut back on foreign assistance instead. Go to Home Page »
Business   Correction. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content Skip to navigation View mobile version The New York Times Business Day|Correction Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Supported by Business Day Correction JAN. 30, 2009 Continue reading the main story Share This Page Continue reading the main story An earlier version of this article misstated the business interests of Alan Rodrigues. He is the former owner of the Opera House and Silver Nugget casinos in North Las Vegas, Nev., not the current owner. Continue reading the main story What's Next Loading... Go to Home Page » Site Index The New York Times Site Index Navigation News World U.S. Politics N.Y. Business Tech Science Health Sports Education Obituaries Today's Paper Corrections Opinion Today's Opinion Op-Ed Columnists Editorials Contributing Writers Op-Ed Contributors Opinionator Letters Sunday Review Taking Note Room for Debate Public Editor Video: Opinion Arts Today's Arts Art & Design ArtsBeat Books Dance Movies Music N.Y.C. Events Guide Television Theater Video: Arts Living Automobiles Crossword Food Education Fashion & Style Health Jobs Magazine N.Y.C. Events Guide Real Estate T Magazine Travel Weddings & Celebrations Listings & More Classifieds Tools & Services Times Topics Public Editor N.Y.C. Events Guide Blogs Multimedia Photography Video NYT Store Times Journeys Subscribe Manage My Account Subscribe Subscribe Times Insider Home Delivery Digital Subscriptions NYT Opinion Crossword Email Newsletters Alerts Gift Subscriptions Corporate Subscriptions Education Rate Mobile Applications Replica Edition International New York Times Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Foreign   David Dodge, an Early Lebanon Hostage, Dies at 86. Advertisement Advertisement By MARGALIT FOXJAN. 30, 2009 David Stuart Dodge, a former official of the American University of Beirut who was in the vanguard of Americans to be kidnapped in Lebanon and held hostage for an extended period during the country’s 15-year civil war, died Jan. 20 in Princeton, N.J. He was 86 and lived in Princeton. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Dodge was the university’s acting president when he was abducted by armed men outside his campus office on July 19, 1982; his abductors were widely described as Shiite militia members with ties to Iran. The kidnapping, and the ensuing diplomatic efforts to secure Mr. Dodge’s release, received worldwide news coverage. With the help of the Syrian government, which intervened on his behalf, Mr. Dodge was released on July 19, 1983, a year to the day from his abduction. He had been held first in Lebanon and later in Iran. Advertisement The kidnapping came at the start of a spate of abductions of Westerners in Lebanon during the country’s civil war, which lasted from 1975 to 1990. Some of the hostages were killed; others, among them the American journalist Terry A. Anderson, were released only after many years. Mr. Dodge’s successor as president of the American University of Beirut, Malcolm H. Kerr, was shot and killed outside his office in January 1984. Mr. Dodge was the fourth generation of his family to lead the university. Opened in 1866, it was founded by his great-grandfather, Daniel Bliss. Mr. Dodge’s grandfather, Howard Bliss, served as its president, as did his father, Bayard Dodge. (The family’s prominence stretched back farther still: two ancestors, Anson Greene Phelps and William E. Dodge, had founded the Phelps Dodge Corporation, a large mining concern, in 1834.) David Stuart Dodge was born Nov. 17, 1922, in Beirut and grew up there. After high school at Deerfield Academy in Massachusetts, he earned a bachelor’s degree in history from Princeton in 1945, followed by a master’s from the university in Arabic and Middle East studies. In World War II, he served in the Middle East with the Office of Strategic Services. Starting in the late 1940s, Mr. Dodge worked in Saudi Arabia for the Arabian American Oil Company; he later worked for an Aramco subsidiary in Lebanon. In the mid-1970s, after the Lebanese civil war began, he spent several years as president of the Near East Foundation in New York. He returned to Beirut in 1979 to become a vice president at the American University. Mr. Dodge’s first wife, the former Doris Westfall, whom he married in 1952, died in 2000. He is survived by his second wife, the former Margaret White Keating; a sister, Grace Dodge Guthrie; four children from his first marriage, Nina, Bayard, Melissa and Simon Dodge; three stepchildren, Richard White Jr., John E. White and Lee White Galvis; four grandchildren; and eight step-grandchildren. After his release, Mr. Dodge spent several years as the recording secretary of Princeton University. From 1996 to 1997, he served once more as president of the American University of Beirut, this time from its headquarters in New York. In retirement, he was active in philanthropic and civic affairs. Mr. Dodge, who said publicly after his release that his captors had not maltreated him, remained circumspect about his experience to the end of his life. But he did say that it had done nothing to diminish his deep feeling for the region. Advertisement “For four generations my family has been involved with educational and medical services in the Middle East,” he told The Associated Press a few days after he was freed. “We have a great concern for the people of the area, and the past year has not changed that.” An obituary on Saturday about David Stuart Dodge, a former official of the American University of Beirut who was held hostage in Lebanon from July 1982 to July 1983, attributed an erroneous distinction to him. He was part of an early wave of American hostages held there for an extended period, but was not the first. (At least two other Americans were held for four months in 1975-76.) A version of this article appears in print on , on page A22 of the New York edition with the headline: First Lebanon Hostage, David Dodge, Dies at 86. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Sports   Mickelson Misses Cut. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content Skip to navigation View mobile version The New York Times Golf|Mickelson Misses Cut Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Supported by Golf | Sports Briefing | Golf Mickelson Misses Cut By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSJAN. 31, 2009 Continue reading the main story Share This Page Continue reading the main story While Phil Mickelson missed the projected cut by seven strokes, Nick Watney shot an eight-under-par 63 to take the second-round lead in the FBR Open in Scottsdale, Ariz. Play was called because of darkness with three players, all above the cut line, still on the course. At nine under, Watney had a one-stroke lead over Charley Hoffman (68), Matt Kuchar (67) and the first-round co-leader James Nitties (69). Mickelson, the 1996 and 2005 winner, never recovered from a 76 on Thursday in his first round of the year. It was the first time Mickelson missed the cut in his season debut since he turned professional in 1992. A version of this brief appears in print on , on page D2 of the New York edition with the headline: Mickelson Misses Cut. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Continue reading the main story What's Next Loading... Go to Home Page » Site Index The New York Times Site Index Navigation News World U.S. Politics N.Y. Business Tech Science Health Sports Education Obituaries Today's Paper Corrections Opinion Today's Opinion Op-Ed Columnists Editorials Contributing Writers Op-Ed Contributors Opinionator Letters Sunday Review Taking Note Room for Debate Public Editor Video: Opinion Arts Today's Arts Art & Design ArtsBeat Books Dance Movies Music N.Y.C. Events Guide Television Theater Video: Arts Living Automobiles Crossword Food Education Fashion & Style Health Jobs Magazine N.Y.C. Events Guide Real Estate T Magazine Travel Weddings & Celebrations Listings & More Classifieds Tools & Services Times Topics Public Editor N.Y.C. Events Guide Blogs Multimedia Photography Video NYT Store Times Journeys Subscribe Manage My Account Subscribe Subscribe Times Insider Home Delivery Digital Subscriptions NYT Opinion Crossword Email Newsletters Alerts Gift Subscriptions Corporate Subscriptions Education Rate Mobile Applications Replica Edition International New York Times Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
U.S.   Braddock Rises From the Ashes. Channels & Shows Home Search TimesVideo Log In Channels U.S. & Politics International New York Op-Docs Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style T Magazine Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Magazine Recent Videos U.S. Braddock Rises From the Ashes By Shayla Harris | Jan. 31, 2009 | 7:33 When steel collapsed, Braddock, Pa., suffered a post-industrial decline that an energetic new mayor hopes to turn around with leadership and some innovative ideas. Related: article: Rock Bottom for Decades, but Showing Signs of Life Show More PlaylistUp Next in U.S. Next →   Business1:31 Fiat Chief on New Innovation Ideas   U.S. & Politics1:27 Obama Introduces New Tax Rules   U.S. & Politics0:28 Suspect Arrested in Maryland Shootings   U.S. & Politics1:01 Shooting at Maryland Mall   U.S. & Politics1:39 Obama on Trump’s Campaign   U.S.0:43 U.S. Concerned About Truce in Syria   U.S. & Politics0:33 Lawmaker's Removal Adds to Brazil's Turmoil   U.S.1:37 Gator Wrestling (Barefoot) in Colorado   U.S. & Politics1:06 Ban on Selling E-Cigarettes to Minors   U.S.0:22 Obama, Dancing With the Star (Wars) © 2016 New York Times Company Contact Us Work with Us Advertising Ad Choice Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale RSS Help Site Feedback
Business   Internet Google Error Sends Warning Worldwide. Google’s Internet search service malfunctioned for nearly 55 minutes Saturday morning, upending users around the world with search results that carried false safety warnings and Web links that did not work. The company acknowledged Saturday that all searches produced links with the same warning message: “This site may harm your computer.” Clicking on any of the links led to an error message stating that the desired site could not be reached. “What happened?” Google explained in its blog. “Very simply, human error.” Google said it periodically updates its list of sites suspected of carrying dangerous software that could harm computers, and that Saturday morning a Google employee mistyped a Web address for one such site, causing all sites to be flagged harmful. There was some momentary tension when Google seemed to imply that the glitch was caused by StopBadware.org, the company that helps Google determine which sites are unsafe. Google later posted a statement that took the blame for the error. “We have a good ongoing relationship with StopBadware.org,” a Google spokesman, Gabriel Stricker, said in a telephone interview. “In our post, we tried to clarify our role in this error.” Google is not known for glitches, but there have been other recent ones. Google Maps had a software glitch last month that sent drivers trying to get to different points within Staten Island, specifically zip codes 10302 and 10308, on a 176-mile detour to Schenectady instead. The glitches in Google Maps and Google search were unrelated, Mr. Stricker said. As for Saturday’s search engine failure, he added: “Our Web search is extremely reliable, and that’s why when an interruption occurs, even if it’s for a matter of minutes, for a Saturday morning, people notice it.” Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers. New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse.
Foreign   Chinese Cautious on Treasury Notes. Advertisement Advertisement By REUTERSJAN. 31, 2009 LONDON (Reuters) — China’s willingness to continue buying United States Treasury securities in large numbers will depend on its need to protect the value of its foreign investments, the Chinese premier, Wen Jiabao, said Saturday. He also said that a stable yuan is in everyone’s interests. “Whether we will buy more U.S. Treasury bonds, and if so by how much — we should take that decision in accordance with China’s own need and also our aim to keep the security of our foreign reserves and the value of them,” Mr. Wen said. His enigmatic remarks, made near the end of a visit to Europe, could raise new concerns about China’s commitment to continue purchasing United States government debt. A version of this article appears in print on , on page A8 of the New York edition with the headline: China Wary on U.S. Bonds. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Go to Home Page »
Society   With This Dress I Thee Wed and Wed and Wed. Advertisement Advertisement Field Notes By BETHANY KANDEL JAN. 31, 2009 ONCE upon a time, women who bought their wedding dresses secondhand to cut costs may have kept it a secret; today they have bragging rights. Frugality is in. “There are so many better ways to spend your money,” says Emily Cayton, 24, of Del Rio, Tex., who bought her $2,200 “dream dress” for $600 on preownedweddingdresses.com for her December wedding. “If you can possibly find it cheaper, why not be proud of finding a good deal.” At a time when the average cost of a wedding is $28,082, and the average dress is $1,075, according to the Brides.com American Wedding Study 2009, and designer gowns sell for as much as $10,000 or more, a growing number of brides on a budget are looking to save money and be eco-friendly by renting or buying used dresses and other items for their weddings. Whether they are billed as “once worn,” “pre-owned,” or “lightly loved,” Web sites like woreitonce.com, oncewed.com and savethedress.com offer listings for hundreds of dresses at substantial savings, in all sizes, styles and prices. Even previously owned high-end couture gowns from designers like Vera Wang, Monique Lhuillier, and Amsale sell for 25 to 50 percent or more off the original retail price, giving brides a realistic alternative to finding “something affordable without sacrificing quality,” said Nina Willdorf, the author of “Wedding Chic: The Savvy Bride’s Guide to Getting More While Spending Less” (Perigee Trade). Advertisement “Smart shopping to find value for less is really chic right now,” Ms. Willdorf said. “It’s not like buying a used sweater that’s been worn for years. A wedding dress has been worn once and only for a matter of hours.” She does caution that such shoppers need to budget for possible alterations and cleaning bills which can add hundreds of dollars to the cost. “Whenever possible, make sure a used wedding dress has been cleaned to ensure there are no stains and smells,” Ms. Willdorf said. “You don’t want it to smell like someone else’s perfume. You want it to smell like you.” Savvy shoppers like Mrs. Cayton aren’t superstitious about wearing a gown with a back story. “Some brides wouldn’t like the idea of wearing anyone else’s gown because of bad luck,” she acknowledged. “But I think you make your own luck.” Nevertheless, she was happy to learn that the bride whose dress she bought wasn’t selling because of a divorce or unhappy marriage. “She was pregnant and trying to make room for the baby.” One bride more conscious of her pocketbook than of what others think is Lauren Rathmann, who crowed about her secondhand gown “success story” on a bridal message board. “I found my dream dress at a bridal salon, but it was way out of my price range,” said Ms. Rathmann, 31, a mechanical engineer from Rockville, Md., who married last June. “Money was tight and I couldn’t, in good conscience, justify paying a premium for a designer gown. But after experiencing the dress, nothing else even compared. So I started stalking the style number online.” She soon found the exact Jim Hjelm dress being sold by another size 2 bride with similar measurements on the weddingbee.com classifieds. It was 40 percent off the original price of $3,100. “The dress fit so well, I’m pretty sure I could play the stunt double for the previous owner if she were to star in an action flick!” she said. Not everyone is as happy with their online purchase, resulting in the phenomenon of the multiple-dress bride selling her extras. “I was a two-dress bride,” said Bethany Saldana, 25, a secretary in Chicago. She bought a custom-designed once-used gown that needed significant altering, so she kept looking. “The second one I found was perfect. It was more my style, fit much better and didn’t need to be cleaned.” Total price for the two on Craigslist: $300. For those bargain hunters who want to try on the dress before purchase, there are consignment shops. Encore Bridal is an upscale resale and consignment bridal e-boutique (www.encorebridal.com) where brides can find new, sample and “recycled couture” gowns, discounted 30 to 60 percent off retail prices. They can buy online or at a private styling session in the Los Angeles area. Advertisement To be sold on their site, dresses must be less than three years old, said the owner, Julie Jones, who rejects 90 percent of the used gowns she is offered. (No ’80s gowns with poufy sleeves or out-of-style silhouettes.) “We cater to the bride who says, ‘My budget is $1,500 but I’m really attracted to gowns in the $3,000 to $5,000 range.’ They’re looking for ways to get a dream dress that fits in their budget. This way they can have it all.” Renting is another cost-saving option. At Fantasy Bridal & Formal Wear in Gatlinburg, Tenn., brides have a choice of 2,000 of the latest styles for rent from $90 and up. And renters can borrow the veil, tiara and jewelry free. Cost-conscious brides are scouring the Internet for other bargains, too. Web sites like theknot.com’s trash-to-treasures board and bridetobrideboutique.com advertise scores of secondhand accessories and decorations for sale including his and hers “Just Married” flip-flops for $1.50 a pair, $50 French lace aisle runners and $20 flower girl baskets. Heather Temple posted two silver pocket watches engraved “Anthony” and “Dennis,” originally bought for two groomsmen who canceled at the last minute. “Why not recoup some of the cost,” said Mrs. Temple, 24, a development associate from Villas, N.J., who was married Sept. 20. She’ll use the $300 she made from selling leftover wedding items that cluttered her spare bedroom (including the “Anthony” watch) on a vacation. When the day is over, some brides are feeling no remorse posting their gowns for resale. “Usually they just end up gathering dust in a closet,” said Davia Downey, 31, a doctoral student from Traverse City, Mich., who was married last May and has her dress for sale on eBay. “Who knows if my daughter, if I have one, would want to wear my dress on her special day.” Besides, she added, “Maybe passing on my wedding gown, which holds such great memories for me, will rub off on a new bride. The knowledge that my dress could make someone else’s day fabulous is a motivator for me to sell.” A version of this article appears in print on , on page ST12 of the New York edition with the headline: With This Dress I Thee Wed and Wed and Wed. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe See More » Go to Home Page »
Sports   Yow Buried in Hometown. NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search Skip to content Skip to navigation View mobile version The New York Times College Basketball|Yow Buried in Hometown Advertisement Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search search sponsored by Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Supported by College Basketball | Sports Briefing | Basketball Yow Buried in Hometown By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSFEB. 1, 2009 Continue reading the main story Share This Page Continue reading the main story Kay Yow, the former North Carolina State women’s coach, was buried in her hometown, Gibsonville, N.C., about 70 miles west of Raleigh. Yow, a Hall of Famer, died Jan. 24 after a long fight with cancer. She coached at nearby Elon University for four years before taking over at North Carolina State in 1975 and piling up more than 700 career wins. The Wolfpack players and coaching staff were among about 300 mourners. After the graveside service, the team boarded a bus for Sunday’s game at Virginia Tech. A version of this brief appears in print on , on page SP11 of the New York edition with the headline: Yow Buried In Hometown. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe Continue reading the main story What's Next Loading... Go to Home Page » Site Index The New York Times Site Index Navigation News World U.S. Politics N.Y. Business Tech Science Health Sports Education Obituaries Today's Paper Corrections Opinion Today's Opinion Op-Ed Columnists Editorials Contributing Writers Op-Ed Contributors Opinionator Letters Sunday Review Taking Note Room for Debate Public Editor Video: Opinion Arts Today's Arts Art & Design ArtsBeat Books Dance Movies Music N.Y.C. Events Guide Television Theater Video: Arts Living Automobiles Crossword Food Education Fashion & Style Health Jobs Magazine N.Y.C. Events Guide Real Estate T Magazine Travel Weddings & Celebrations Listings & More Classifieds Tools & Services Times Topics Public Editor N.Y.C. Events Guide Blogs Multimedia Photography Video NYT Store Times Journeys Subscribe Manage My Account Subscribe Subscribe Times Insider Home Delivery Digital Subscriptions NYT Opinion Crossword Email Newsletters Alerts Gift Subscriptions Corporate Subscriptions Education Rate Mobile Applications Replica Edition International New York Times Site Information Navigation © 2016 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions
Travel   Chasing Bonefish in the Bahamas. Subscribe Now Subscribe campaign: inyt2015_bar1_digi_usd_4L9UF -- 277474, creative: inyt2015_bar1_digi_buttononly_usd_4L9UF -- 406560, page: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/travel/0201-bahamas.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/travel, position: Bar1 Log In Register Now Help More Slide Shows Travel Search Slide Shows All Multimedia » Close Chasing Bonefish in the Bahamas « Previous 1 of 11 Next » Sign In to E-Mail Acklins Island is a tranquil sandbar that sits at the very bottom of the Bahamian chain, 100 miles northeast of Cuba. People come for the bonefish and solitude -- there isn't much else. Credit: Chris Ramirez for The New York Times Related Article: Fishing the Bahama Flats Travel Guide: The Bahamas Home Travel © 2011 The New York Times Company Privacy Policy Your Ad Choices Contact Us Help Work for Us Site Map campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_personalized_isEDU_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/travel/0201-bahamas.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/interactive/yr/mo/day/travel, position: Inv1
Arts   Arts. Arts Search slide shows All Multimedia » next 1 of 9 Eugene Onegin Sign In to E-Mail Karita Mattila as Tatiana in the Metropolitan Operas production of Tchaikovskys Eugene Onegin. Photo: Sara Krulwich/The New York Times related Article: A Smitten Teenagers Letter Is Returned to Sender All Over Again Times Topic: Metropolitan Opera Home Arts Log In Register Now Copyright   The New York Times Company Privacy Policy Contact Us Help Work for Us Site Map campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_personalized_isEDU_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/slideshow/yr/mo/day/arts/20090202_ONEGIN_SLIDESHOW_index.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/slideshow/yr/mo/day/arts, position: Inv1
Business   Acela Looks to Lure From the Skies and the Roads. Advertisement Advertisement By STUART ELLIOTTFEB. 2, 2009 Amtrak has attracted some famous customers in the last couple of weeks. First, Barack Obama and Joe Biden, on their way to Washington to be inaugurated, followed by Richard Parsons, the new chairman of Citigroup, on his way to meet with President Obama. It is unknown if those well-known travelers were influenced by a campaign Amtrak is running to promote its Acela Express service in the Northeast corridor. But to quote the slogan of another campaign, for the New York Lottery, hey, you never know. The Acela campaign seeks to lure passengers from airlines with enticements that begin, “You have the right.” The rights include legroom, outlets to plug in electronic devices, arrivals in city centers, food service when you want it and, perhaps most tellingly, as a commercial puts it, “taking off your shoes -- only if you feel like it.” The commercial, on television and screens in taxi cabs, is one element of the campaign, which has a budget estimated at $9 million to $9.5 million. There are also print advertisements; signs and posters; banner ads online; and, in a first for Amtrak, a game called All Aboard, which can be downloaded to mobile devices. The campaign began in January and is scheduled to run through April. The ads were created by Arnold Worldwide, part of the Arnold Worldwide Partners division of Havas. The account is handled by the office the agency calls Arnold D.C., which is in the Washington suburb of Arlington, Va. Advertisement The campaign is the most recent in a series from Arnold D.C. for Acela Express, which offers service between Boston, New York and Washington. There are 15 hourly departures between New York and Washington and 10 daily departures between Boston and New York. The ads, aimed mostly at business travelers who are not already riding Acela, present the train as an attractive alternative not only to flying but also to driving. “Some of the things we continue to promote are the inherent benefits of train travel,” says Gail Reisman, senior director for national advertising and marketing programs at Amtrak in Washington. Among them, she lists the ability to go from “downtown to downtown” and “outlets at seats.” The campaign is also inspired by “changes in competitive modes of transportation,” Ms. Reisman says, like the new fees the airlines are charging and the gyrating price of gasoline. “Many things we now believe are luxuries in travel are benefits, rights, we afford all our passengers on Acela Express,” she adds. That is underscored in the approach taken by the commercial, which begins with an announcer asking, “Why is travel these days about what you give up and not what you get?” She proceeds to describe advantages of Acela Express “like electricity for gadget power,” stretching room, “food when you’re hungry” and the aforementioned optional shoe removal. “These aren’t luxuries,” the announcer concludes, adding: “They’re basics. Get them back on Acela.” Advertisement A print ad takes a similar tack. “You have the right to arrive downtown,” the headline proclaims alongside a drawing of a skyline and the distinctive Acela locomotive. “When you travel on Acela Express, you can work or relax the entire trip,” the text reads. “So when you arrive right downtown, you’re focused and ready to do business. Or anything else that brings you to town. Besides Acela, that is.” The headline of a poster asserts, “You have the right to plug in.” Underneath, a drawing depicts a power cord and plug attached to an Acela locomotive; the effect is not unlike that of a really cool-looking electric shaver. “A power source at every seat,” the text of the poster promises. The campaign is presented as part of “our brand truth for Amtrak: ‘the nice way to get there,’ ” says Woody Kay, managing partner and chief creative officer at Arnold D.C. And with all “the travel hassles these days” in the air and on the highways, he adds, Amtrak is also offering “the better way to go.” The point of centering the new campaign on travelers’ rights is that Acela Express “lets you take back control,” Mr. Kay says. “The thinking is: ‘I can take my shoes off when I want to, instead of being told to by a security agent. I have a right to stretch out, to eat when I want, to pull my tray table down or up,’ ” he adds. Although the campaign was planned before the effects of the financial crisis began to be felt, the ads remain relevant, Mr. Kay says. Advertisement “People are still going to conduct business,” he adds, “and the business traveler still has to get from Point A to Point B.” “We want to keep Acela top of mind” in this environment, Mr. Kay says, “and attract new riders.” To that end, Ms. Reisman says, Amtrak is introducing a promotion: “Buy three round-trips and get the fourth free.” The offer is for members of the Amtrak frequent-traveler program, known as Guest Rewards. “The economy has definitely impacted our business,” Ms. Reisman says, but there are indications “that we’re holding our own better than competitive modes of transportation.” The softening comes after what she calls “an incredible year” for Acela Express, referring to the Amtrak fiscal year that ended on Sept. 30. Compared with the previous fiscal year, Ms. Reisman says, ridership rose 7 percent and revenue increased 16 percent. (Acela Express accounts for 27 percent of Amtrak’s total revenue, she adds.) With the new campaign for Acela Express under way, Mr. Kay says, the next step is a commercial that burnishes the Amtrak brand rather than selling a specific service. Plans call for the spot to be filmed this week, he adds, and brought out in March. After that, Mr. Kay says, mark your calendar for May 9, which is National Train Day, meant to celebrate rail transportation. With a vice president of the United States who is nicknamed Amtrak Joe — marking his years of daily train trips between Wilmington, Del., and Washington — perhaps next year’s calendar will give Amtrak a National Train Week. If you like In Advertising, be sure to read the Advertising column that runs Monday through Friday in the Business Day section of The New York Times print edition and on nytimes.com. Go to Home Page »
